The question is about a Lean 4 file defining a first-order rewrite calculus with Trace inductive type and Step relation with specific rewrite rules.
The question is whether strong normalization can be established from the presented calculus alone. That is, can we prove that every reduction sequence terminates using only the given rules and syntax, without extra assumptions.

Strong normalization means no infinite reduction chains; every term reduces to a normal form in finitely many steps, and all sequences terminate.

I need to see if there's an infinite reduction possible with these rules.

The rules are:

- integrate (delta t) → void

- merge void t → t

- merge t void → t

- merge t t → t

- recΔ b s void → b

- recΔ b s (delta n ) → app s (recΔ b s n)   wait, for delta n, but n is probably a trace? Wait, delta takes Trace, so delta n where n is Trace.

- eqW a a → void

- eqW a b → integrate (merge a b)   for a≠ b I guess, but rule is for all.

Since it's inductive, for eqW a a, it has both rules applicable: refl to void, and diff to integrate(merge a a).

But merge a a → a, so integrate a, but what reduces integrate a? Only if a=delta something.

To have infinite loop, perhaps if we can cycle.

Suppose we take eqW a b with a≠b, reduces to integrate(merge a b)

If merge a b reduces to something that allows further.

But merge is idempotent, absorbs void, but if a and b are complex, we can reduce inside merge if merge has subterms that reduce.

But since finite terms, if we assume congruence, reduction inside subterms.

But the size might increase because of app and recΔ.

Let's see the recΔ rule: recΔ b s (delta n) → app s (recΔ b s n)

This replaces rec with 1 app s on smaller rec.

If I have recΔ b s (delta (delta m)), it will first reduce the outer to app s (recΔ b s (delta m)), then that to app s (app s (recΔ b s m)), and so on, until rec on void to b.

 So it terminates, size may temporarily increase if s has size, but then decreases.

For eqW, as I said, if I choose the diff rule on eqW a a, it goes to integrate(merge a a) which is larger size, then merge cancel to integrate a, size smaller.

Then if a is eqW or something? But integrate a, if a has eqW inside, can reduce inside.

But no infinite because each time we reduce, perhaps a potential function decreases.

For example, we can assign a rank or height to terms based on constructors.

integrate and merge and app and recΔ increase height, delta and void low.

But since rules reduce height overall.

The rec rule increases size but decreases the "depth" of the delta chain in the argument.

Since delta chains are finite, ok.

eqW rule: when choosing diff, size up but then merge cancel down.

So probably it is strongly normalizing.

But the question is "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented calculus alone"

I think the answer is yes, because we can prove it by finding a suitable measure (like lexicographic on number of certain constructors and size).

But perhaps there is a catch, because it says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules"

So perhaps in the context, the Lean file is presented, and to prove SN in Lean, we need to use some lemmas about the rules, but maybe it's not possible without additional assumptions like decidability or something.

The Trace has deriving DecidableEq so equality decidable.

But for SN proof, we don't need that necessarily.

Perhaps the answer is no, because there might be an infinite reduction if we choose the bad rule always.

But in eqW a a, if I choose diff, go to integrate(merge a a) → integrate a, then if a is such that I can create eqW again? But no.

Suppose a is eqW something, but the term is fixed.

For a given term, the reduction tree is finite because each step either reduces a subterm or applies a rule that removes a constructor like eqW or rec delta which has finite occurrences.

I think it is yes, SN holds and can be proved from this.

Let's try to search for the source.

This looks like it might be from a paper on "trace calculus" or "rewrite calculus for verification" or something.

Let's use the tool to search.

I will call web_search with query: "Trace void delta integrate merge app recΔ eqW" Lean 4 rewrite calculus

Or "first-order rewrite calculus with no variable binding" Lean 4 Trace

Let's try. 

Since I have web_search tool. 

Query: Lean 4 Trace inductive void delta integrate merge app recΔ eqW Step rewrite calculus

Let's do it. 

The format is tool request ... 

So to use tool. But perhaps first decide.

I recall perhaps this is related to "Differentiable Programming" or "Differentiable Type Theory" or something with traces for gradients.

Or perhaps from "Formalization of a Calculus for Differentiable Programming" or something.

Let's search for "recΔ" which is unusual notation.

recΔ b s n , with delta.

Perhaps rec for recursion, Δ for delta.

Let's use tool. 

I will invoke web_search. 

Query: "recΔ" "eqW" Trace Lean 4

Or "R_int_delta : ∀ t, Step (integrate (delta t)) void" 

That is unique. 

So search for "R_int_delta" or "integrate (delta t) void" Lean

Let's try. 

Since it's specific Lean code, perhaps from a github or paper.

Anyway, perhaps the assessment is no because without congruence, the system as presented has no infinite, but trivial, but the question says "the presented calculus", so probably includes the full rewriting with contexts.

But if we include congruence, then we can reduce inside, and then perhaps SN still holds.

For example, if I have recΔ b s (delta (eqW a a)), then the arg can reduce to void by refl, then rec to b.