We need to answer the question: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented calculus alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules? Provide raw assessment and brief reasoning, staying within that boundary.

We need to examine the given inductive type Trace and Step rewrite rules.

We have:

Inductive Trace: Type with constructors: void, delta (unary), integrate (unary), merge (binary), app (binary), recΔ (ternary), eqW (binary). Deriving DecidableEq, Repr.

Inductive Step : Trace → Trace → Prop with rules:

R_int_delta: ∀ t, Step (integrate (delta t)) void

R_merge_void_left: ∀ t, Step (merge void t) t

R_merge_void_right: ∀ t, Step (merge t void) t

R_merge_cancel: ∀ t, Step (merge t t) t

R_rec_zero: ∀ b s, Step (recΔ b s void) b

R_rec_succ: ∀ b s n, Step (recΔ b s (delta n)) (app s (recΔ b s n))

R_eq_refl: ∀ a, Step (eqW a a) void

R_eq_diff: ∀ a b, Step (eqW a b) (integrate (merge a b))

We want to know if strong normalization (SN) can be proven for this rewrite system.

We need to consider if the rewrite rules form a terminating rewrite system. Let's see if there are any loops possible. Each rule reduces a term to something else (or maybe sometimes reduces to a larger term?). Let's examine each.

- R_int_delta: integrate (delta t) → void. That reduces size.

- R_merge_void_left: merge void t → t. This reduces.

- R_merge_void_right: merge t void → t. Reduce.

- R_merge_cancel: merge t t → t. Reduce.

- R_rec_zero: recΔ b s void → b. Reduce (since void removed).

- R_rec_succ: recΔ b s (delta n) → app s (recΔ b s n). This reduces a term of the form recΔ b s (delta n) to app s (recΔ b s n). This may increase size because we replace delta n with s plus recΔ (smaller argument). Let's examine: left side: recΔ b s (delta n). Right side: app s (recΔ b s n). The argument n appears inside recΔ on right side. It appears that the size of the term reduces? Let's see measure: we replace a term recΔ b s (delta n) by app s (recΔ b s n). The argument is delta n → n; recΔ has a recursion on the third argument (the "counter" argument). The reduction removes delta (the "step" constructor) from the third argument while moving s to app.

Specifically, the size of the term can be measured by some measure: for a term recΔ b s (delta n), we can define measure = size of n (the "delta-depth" maybe). Then recΔ b s (delta n) reduces to app s (recΔ b s n) which reduces the delta-depth by 1. That seems to be a decreasing measure. So termination likely holds.

- R_eq_refl: eqW a a → void.

- R_eq_diff: eqW a b → integrate (merge a b). This is interesting: if a and b are not equal (the premise doesn't check equality, it's just a rule that applies for any a,b). Actually it's a rewrite rule that says eqW a b reduces to integrate (merge a b). There's no condition that a ≠ b. So it always rewrites eqW a b (no matter what a,b) to integrate (merge a b). That's weird because that includes possibly a = b, but we also have eqW a a → void (R_eq_refl). So we have two possible rewrites for eqW a a: one reduces to void, the other to integrate (merge a a). Both applicable. The rule R_eq_refl leads to void (size reduces). R_eq_diff leads to integrate (merge a a). Since merge a a → a (by R_merge_cancel). Then integrate (delta a?) Wait: integrate expects a trace, merge a a yields a (by R_merge_cancel), then integrate (a) would be integrate a, which is not a redex? There's only rule for integrate (delta t) -> void. There's no rule for integrate (void) or integrate (something else). So integrate (merge a a) -> integrate a (via merge cancel) but integrate a is not reducible further (unless a has delta inside?). So the system can loop? Let's see.

We have eqW a a reduces to void (R_eq_refl). Also eqW a a reduces to integrate (merge a a). Then merge a a reduces to a (R_merge_cancel). So we have a path:

eqW a a → integrate (merge a a) → integrate a (by R_merge_cancel). At this point integrate a has no reduction rule (unless a has delta inside). If a is arbitrary, maybe we could get a situation where a reduces further leading to a bigger term? Let's see.

Also, eqW a b → integrate (merge a b). Then merge a b may reduce to something else: if both a and b have void or something. Let's examine possible reductions:

- If we have merge a b where either is void, we can reduce via R_merge_void_left or R_merge_void_right to the other argument (or to the other argument if one is void). That reduces the size. If a and b are equal, merge reduces to a (by R_merge_cancel). If a != b, maybe merge does not cancel, but we might still have other reductions: merge has no other rule; only those three.

- Then integrate has rule only for integrate (delta t) → void. It does nothing for integrate (void) or integrate (some other argument). So the reduction may stop there.

Thus the eqW rule seems to not cause non-termination because it reduces size? Wait: eqW a b reduces to integrate (merge a b). The size of eqW a b is something like 1 + size of a + size of b. The result is integrate (merge a b) which is maybe size 1 + size of merge a b. But merge a b may be size 1 + size a + size b. So integrate (merge a b) has size maybe similar to eqW a b (or maybe larger?). Let's compute: eqW a b has constructor eqW with two subterms a and b. So size = 1 + size a + size b. integrate (merge a b) has integrate (merge a b) = 1 + size of merge a b, where merge a b is 1 + size a + size b. So total = 1 + (1 + size a + size b) = 2 + size a + size b. So integrate (merge a b) is larger than eqW a b by 1. So the rule R_eq_diff strictly increases term size! That's potentially problematic for termination: it's a non-terminating rule (or at least not decreasing). However, we also have rule R_eq_refl that reduces eqW a a to void, which reduces size dramatically. But R_eq_diff applies for any a, b; thus if we pick a and b such that a = b (the case of eqW a a), both rules apply. The rewrite system is non-deterministic; but termination means that there are no infinite rewrite sequences. Does existence of a rule that increases size automatically cause non-termination? Not necessarily, because we could have other rules that reduce size eventually. But the critical question: can we create an infinite rewrite chain using eqW? Let's consider we could apply R_eq_diff repeatedly: eqW a b → integrate (merge a b) → ??? There's no further reduction from integrate except if the argument is delta something. So we can only continue if we can transform integrate (X) into something else, but the only rule is integrate (delta t) → void. So we need X = delta t. So we would need merge a b to reduce to delta something. That seems impossible, because merge a b reduces to either void? Let's see: merge a b can reduce using rules: merge void t → t, merge t void → t, merge t t → t. But no rule yields delta something. So we can't get integrate (delta something) from integrate (merge a b). So after applying R_eq_diff, the term stuck unless we apply other reductions to subterms a or b before merging? Wait: eqW a b reduces to integrate (merge a b). At that point we can reduce subterms a and b (or merge) as part of rewriting inside-out? In rewrite systems, reductions can happen anywhere in a term: we can reduce a subterm to something else. So we could first reduce a or b to something else. For example, a might be integrate (delta t) that reduces to void, etc. Then after merging, we may get delta somewhere? Let's think: a could be delta t; then merge a b could have a = delta t. There is no reduction rule for merge with delta as one argument. So that yields no reduction for that part.

Thus, after applying R_eq_diff, we get integrate (merge a b). The only possible reductions are to reduce a or b (or merge) inside integrate (i.e., reduce subterms). But there is no reduction from integrate except the delta case. So if merge a b reduces to something like delta u (which would be needed to apply integrate rule), that's impossible because merge cannot produce delta. So we cannot get integrate (delta ...) from integrate (merge a b). So that branch ends with a term that is stuck (unless a or b can become delta, but we can't produce delta from merge). So the only infinite sequences could be from loops in other rules.

Check other rules: recΔ reduces delta in third argument; merge reduces void and equal arguments; integrate reduces delta to void; eqW reduces equality to void or to integrate(merge...). So overall seems terminating. However, there might be potential loops: for example, we could have recΔ b s (delta n) → app s (recΔ b s n). If we also have some rule that can produce delta from app s something, we could cycle. But there is no rule for app except possibly other reductions that produce app but no rule for app reduces to something else. So app is like a constructor but not reducible. So no loops.

Thus seems termination can be proven. The system is a rewriting system with only finitely many rewrite rules, and each rule reduces some measure: either reduces the size of a particular subterm (like delta count, void removal). R_eq_diff is the only rule that seems to increase size. But maybe we can assign a measure where overall measure decreases: consider a measure like the lexicographic combination of some "weight" for eqW and integrate etc. Let's attempt to see if we can prove termination by assigning a weight to each constructor such that each rewrite reduces weight.

We can assign weight:

- void: weight 0 maybe.

- delta: weight +1? Actually delta is like a step; we might treat it as weight 1 maybe.

- integrate: maybe weight 0? Could incorporate.

But maybe easier: The only potential non-terminating rule is R_eq_diff. But we can argue that for any a,b, after applying R_eq_diff we cannot apply any rule that leads back to eqW or any other rule that could produce eqW again, so there's no infinite chain. Because after we apply eqW a b → integrate (merge a b), there is no rule to produce eqW again. The only way to loop would be to get back to eqW from some other term, but there's no rule that produces eqW. Indeed, eqW only appears as a constructor, not as result of any rule. So we cannot cycle. But we could still have infinite chain if we could keep applying R_eq_diff while also generating new eqW in subterms? Could we produce eqW in subterms? No rule produces eqW. So after applying eqW, you can't get eqW again.

Thus infinite reduction would require infinite reductions in other parts (like recΔ recursion). But that recursion reduces delta depth each step, which is finite.

Thus indeed this rewrite system appears strongly normalizing.

Now can we prove strong normalization from the presented calculus alone, without importing any additional structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from given syntax and rewrite rules? That would involve proving that there is no infinite chain of Step reductions. We can use standard techniques: define a measure (weight) that decreases for each rule, like a rank based on nesting depth of certain constructors (like delta, recΔ, eqW). Provide proof in Lean that the measure is decreasing for each Step relation, then by well-foundedness of natural numbers, we get SN.

But note: the Lean file only defines the inductive type and Step relation, but does not include any proof of termination. The question: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented calculus alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules? You may use any standard proof method provided it does not require strengthening the system with extra rewrite rules, guards, side conditions, or hidden assumptions."

We need to answer: Yes, we can prove SN using standard techniques like assigning a measure or using recursive structurally decreasing argument, based on the given constructors and rewrite rules. The only potential worry is R_eq_diff that increases size, but we can incorporate a measure that uses number of eqW constructors and weight that decreases overall, because each eqW reduces eventually to void (or to integrate (merge ...)) but never leads to infinite chain due to no rule generating eqW. In particular, we can define measure as lexicographic: (number of eqW, depth of delta, number of recΔ). Then each rule reduces this measure: eqW either reduces to void or to integrate (merge ...). The latter reduces number of eqW (to zero) but maybe introduces integrate and merge; but integrate can reduce only if its argument is delta; if argument is not delta, it's stuck, but measure is lower because eqW is gone. Similarly recΔ reduces depth of delta. Merge and integrate reduce some aspects. So all steps reduce measure. Hence SN.

Thus answer: Yes, SN can be established. Provide brief reasoning: each rule reduces a certain measure (like weight defined as e.g., #eqW * 2 + #delta + #recΔ + ...). Because the only rule that might increase weight is R_eq_diff, but it reduces #eqW, and any subsequent reductions cannot increase #eqW again (no rule creates eqW). So overall decreasing.

Alternatively, we can argue using the fact that the rewrite system is finitely branching and each path is decreasing based on a well-founded order: the recursion depth of recΔ and eqW is strictly decreasing.

Thus answer: Yes, we can prove strong normalization. Provide explanation: define a measure M(t) as sum of weights: weight(void)=0; weight(delta t)=1+weight(t); weight(integrate t)=weight(t); weight(merge t1 t2)=weight(t1)+weight(t2); weight(app t1 t2)=weight(t1)+weight(t2); weight(recΔ t1 t2 t3)= 1 + weight(t1)+weight(t2)+weight(t3); weight(eqW t1 t2)=1+weight(t1)+weight(t2). Then show each rule reduces M.

But there is nuance: R_eq_diff increases weight: eqW a b weight = 1 + w(a) + w(b); integrate (merge a b) weight = w(integrate) + w(merge a b) = w(a)+w(b)+something. Might be bigger. But we can define a more refined measure that distinguishes eqW. For example assign weight eqW as 2 (some large) and others less. Then eqW to integrate reduces weight. Actually we want to ensure eqW→integrate reduces weight, but we can assign weight(eqW) larger than weight(integrate) + weight(merge). If we set weight(eqW) = weight(integrate) + weight(merge) + 1, then we get decrease.

Thus overall can prove.

But we should also consider possible loops if eqW can be applied infinitely many times on different arguments? Since eqW reduces to either void (if equal) or integrate (merge...). Both reduce the count of eqW. After that, you cannot produce new eqW, so no infinite.

Thus SN.

Thus answer: Yes, we can prove strong normalization, using standard well-founded measure argument, without any extra axioms. The system is terminating and strongly normalizing.

One might also argue that the rewrite system is confluent? Not needed. The question is just about strong normalization (termination). So we can answer "Yes".

But they ask: "Provide your raw assessment: can strong normalization ... be established from the presented calculus alone ...? Provide your assessment and briefly explain the reasoning, staying within that boundary."

Thus we respond: Yes, we can. Provide short reasoning.

Thus final answer: Yes, strong normalization can be proved using a measure that decreases in each rule, as there are no rules that increase any well-founded measure and no way to generate new eqW or recΔ infinitely. So we can show termination.

We must stay within the boundary: not reading other files or searching web. The answer is simple.

But we should consider if there are any hidden issues: Could there be a non-terminating rewrite sequence using eqW and recΔ? Possibly we can combine eqW with recΔ? Let's see if recΔ can produce eqW or vice versa. No, recΔ produces app s (recΔ b s n). That does not contain eqW. So not.

Potential loops: maybe merge interacts with integrate to produce delta? Let's think: If we have merge (delta t) (something). There's no reduction for merge delta something. However, we could apply integrate after merging? integrate expects delta as argument to reduce. Could we produce delta from merge? Not directly. However, we could have a term integrate (delta (merge a b)). That's integrate (delta X). The rule R_int_delta applies to integrate (delta t). That reduces integrate (delta t) to void, regardless of t. So if we can produce delta (merge a b) we could reduce it. Could we produce delta (merge a b)? We have delta constructor, we can create delta anything: delta (merge a b). That's a term. Does any rule create delta? There's no rule that creates delta; it's a constructor. But we can embed it as part of building the term. The rewrite system can apply to any term built using constructors, so we can have initial term like delta (merge a b) and then apply integrate (delta (merge a b)) -> void. But that's okay. There's no rule that produces delta from something else; we can only have delta as part of initial term.

Thus all is fine.

Thus strong normalization is provable.

Thus answer: Yes, can be proven.

Now we need to produce raw assessment: maybe respond "Yes" with short explanation.

Thus final: Yes, we can prove SN using a simple weight/measure argument. Provide reasoning that each rule reduces a well-founded measure: e.g., define measure M(t) = (c_eqW(t), c_delta(t), c_recΔ(t), size(t)) and show lexicographic decreasing for each rule. Since eqW only appears as head constructor and no rule creates eqW, the only rule that might increase size (R_eq_diff) still reduces the eqW count, and after that can't increase again, so termination holds. No extra axioms needed.

Thus final answer: Yes.

But the question: "Give your raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented calculus alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules?" They want a raw assessment: presumably answer yes or no, and reasoning.

Thus I will answer: Yes, strong normalization can be established.

Given the instructions to "Provide your assessment and briefly explain the reasoning, staying within that boundary", I should keep it concise but clear.

Thus final answer:

Yes. Because the rewrite rules strictly decrease a well-founded measure (e.g., lexicographic order on counts of eqW, delta, recΔ, and total size). The only potentially size‑increasing rule (eqW → integrate (merge …)) eliminates the eqW constructor, and no rule ever creates a new eqW, so the measure still decreases overall. Hence the relation is well‑founded and the system is strongly normalising without any extra axioms.

That should suffice.

But they might ask "raw assessment" possibly meaning "yes" or "no". But likely they want more than just "yes"? Let's interpret: They want a statement: "Yes, strong normalization can be established" plus short justification. I'll provide that.

Thus final.