We are asked to reconsider the previous answer in light of the original instruction. The key point is: can strong normalization be established *from the presented calculus alone* without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules? And we must not use methods that require strengthening the system.

Let me break down the questions:

1. What primary method did your previous answer use?
   In the previous answer, I mentioned two standard methods: Recursive Path Order (RPO) and Dependency Pairs. However, the core reasoning was based on "structural recursion on strict subterms" and the observation that every recursive call is on a strict syntactic subterm. This is essentially a well-founded induction argument on the structure of terms (i.e., the subterm relation). But note: the subterm relation is a well-founded order on terms, and if we can show that every rewrite step reduces the term in a well-founded order (like the recursive path order that uses the subterm property), then termination follows. However, the previous answer also mentioned that duplication (like in exp) does not impair termination because the recursive calls are on smaller subterms. This is a standard argument by structural induction.

2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
   The method of structural induction (or using the subterm relation) is inherent to the syntax of the terms. The subterm relation is defined purely by the term structure (i.e., the tree structure of the terms built from the function symbols and variables). However, to formally prove termination, we typically need to define a well-founded order (like RPO) that orients the rules. The choice of precedence in RPO is not fixed by the rewrite rules; it is an external choice. Similarly, for dependency pairs, we need to define a reduction pair or an order. The previous answer assumed that we can choose a precedence (e.g., putting defined symbols above constructors) and that the subterm property holds. But note: the rewrite rules themselves do not specify any precedence or order. The well-foundedness of the subterm relation is a meta-theoretic fact about the term algebra (which is finitely branching and has no cycles). However, the instruction says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules". The well-foundedness of the subterm relation is a property of the term algebra (which is given by the syntax) and is not an "object-level assumption" but a meta-level fact. However, the question is whether we are allowed to use such meta-level facts.

   But note: the instruction says "beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules". The syntax defines the set of terms, and the subterm relation is derivable from the syntax. The well-foundedness of the subterm relation for finite terms is a mathematical fact that does not require additional axioms about the meaning of the symbols (like "BIT0 represents even numbers"). However, the problem is that the rewrite system includes rules that might not be obviously decreasing in the subterm order. For example, consider the rule:
      SUC(BIT1(n)) -> BIT0(SUC(n))
   Here, the right-hand side has SUC(n) which is not a subterm of the left-hand side (because n is a subterm of BIT1(n), but SUC(n) is built from n and SUC). However, in the recursive path order, we can orient this rule if we set SUC to be greater than BIT0 and BIT1, and use the subterm property. But the choice of precedence (SUC > BIT0, BIT1) is arbitrary and not fixed by the rules. Similarly, for the rule:
      exp(0, BIT0(n)) -> mult(exp(0, n), exp(0, n))
   Here, the recursive calls are on (0, n) which is a subterm of (0, BIT0(n)) in the sense that n is a subterm of BIT0(n). But in RPO, we need to have exp > mult and exp(0, n) < exp(0, BIT0(n)) because n < BIT0(n) (by subterm). However, the rule duplicates the recursive call. The key is: the recursive calls are on a structurally smaller argument (n is a proper subterm of BIT0(n)), so by induction on the structure of the second argument, the recursive calls terminate. This is a standard structural induction argument that does not require an external order beyond the subterm relation.

   However, the problem is that the rewrite system has multiple arguments and nested recursions. The structural induction argument would be: define a measure on terms that is the multiset of the sizes (or the structural height) of the "active" subterms that are being recursed on. But note: the rules for exp, mult, etc., have recursions on multiple arguments. The standard way is to use a lexicographic or multiset order on the arguments. But again, the choice of which argument to recurse on is not fixed by the rules. However, in this system, for each defined symbol, the recursive calls are always on strict subterms of the original arguments. For example, in exp(s, t), the recursive calls are on (s, n) where n is a subterm of t (when t is BIT0(n) or BIT1(n)). So the second argument is decreasing. Similarly, for plus, the recursive calls are on (m, n) where m and n are subterms of the original arguments. But note: in plus(BIT1(m), BIT1(n)) -> BIT0(SUC(plus(m,n))), the recursive call is on (m, n) which are subterms of the original arguments. So the pair (m, n) is lexicographically smaller than (BIT1(m), BIT1(n)) if we consider the structural size.

   The critical point: the argument that "every recursive call is on a strict syntactic subterm of some argument of the original term" is a property that can be checked from the rules. Then, by the well-foundedness of the subterm relation (which is a property of the term algebra, not an imported axiom about the meaning of the symbols), we can conclude termination. However, the well-foundedness of the subterm relation for finite terms is a foundational fact in term rewriting and is not considered an "imported structural axiom" in the sense of adding axioms about the domain (like associativity). It is a property of the syntax.

   But wait: the instruction says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules". The well-foundedness of the subterm relation is derivable from the syntax (because terms are finite trees). So it should be acceptable.

   However, there is a catch: the system has rules that might not be obviously decreasing if we only look at the immediate subterms. For example, the rule:
      PRE(BIT0(n)) -> if(eq(n,0),0,BIT1(PRE(n)))
   Here, the recursive call is PRE(n), and n is a subterm of BIT0(n). So the argument to PRE is decreasing. Similarly, in the rule for minus:
      minus(BIT1(m), BIT0(n)) -> if(le(n,m), BIT1(minus(m,n)), 0)
   The recursive call is minus(m, n), and m is a subterm of BIT1(m) and n is a subterm of BIT0(n). So both arguments are decreasing. However, note that the rule uses le(n, m) which itself may require reduction. But le(n, m) is a term that is structurally smaller than the original minus(BIT1(m), BIT0(n)) because n and m are subterms. So by induction, le(n, m) will terminate. Then, depending on the result, we may have BIT1(minus(m,n)) which again has a recursive call on (m, n). So the entire reduction is bounded by the structural size of the inputs.

   Therefore, the structural induction argument (using the size of the term, or the structural height of the arguments that are being recursed on) is valid and does not require any external assumptions about the meaning of the symbols (like "n represents a natural number"). It only relies on the syntactic structure of terms.

3. If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?
   If the method relies on the well-foundedness of the subterm relation (which is a property of the term algebra defined by the syntax), then it is within the boundary because the syntax is given. The term algebra is finitely branching and has no cycles, so the subterm relation is well-founded. This is a meta-theoretic fact that is standard in term rewriting and is not an "imported axiom" in the sense of adding domain-specific knowledge. Therefore, I would argue that the method is within the boundary.

   However, note that the previous answer mentioned RPO and dependency pairs, which require choosing a precedence. The choice of precedence is not fixed by the rules, but it is a proof technique that is standard and does not require strengthening the system. The question is: does the boundary allow us to choose an order (like RPO with a suitable precedence) as long as the order is well-founded and orients the rules? The instruction says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given syntax and rewrite rules". The well-foundedness of RPO with a chosen precedence is a meta-theoretic result, and the precedence is chosen by the prover. However, the fact that such a precedence exists (and can be chosen) is derivable from the structure of the rules (i.e., by inspecting the rules, we see that recursive calls are on subterms, so we can set defined symbols to be greater than constructors and use the subterm property). Therefore, the existence of a suitable order is a consequence of the rule structure, and the proof method (RPO) is a standard tool that does not require adding rules or assumptions to the system.

   But the instruction says "from the presented calculus alone". The calculus includes the syntax and the rules. The standard termination methods (like RPO) are external proof methods, but they are allowed by the instruction: "You may use any standard proof method provided it does not require strengthening the system with extra rewrite rules, guards, side conditions, or hidden assumptions." RPO does not strengthen the system; it is a meta-level proof technique. Therefore, it should be acceptable.

   However, there is a nuance: the system has a symbol `if` that is used in rules (like in PRE and minus) but has no reduction rules. This is acceptable because `if` is treated as a constructor (or a defined symbol with no rules) and the arguments of `if` are reduced independently. The termination of the arguments is guaranteed by the structural induction. So the presence of `if` does not break termination.

4. Separately from boundary compliance, do you still think the system is strongly normalizing?
   Yes, I believe the system is strongly normalizing. The key reasons are:
   - All recursive calls in the right-hand sides are on strict syntactic subterms of the left-hand side arguments. This is verifiable by inspecting each rule.
   - There are no rules that can create an infinite chain of reductions because each reduction step either reduces the "size" of the term (in terms of the structural height of the active arguments) or moves towards a base case.
   - The duplication in rules (like in exp) does not cause non-termination because the duplicated subterms are on smaller arguments, and the number of duplications is bounded by the structure of the term (though the reduction length may be exponential, it is finite).
   - The rules for NUMERAL and the simplifications (like BIT0(0)->0) are terminating and do not introduce cycles.

   However, I must check for potential non-termination. Consider the rule for exp(0, BIT0(n)) -> mult(exp(0, n), exp(0, n)). This duplicates the recursive call. But since n is a proper subterm of BIT0(n), by induction exp(0, n) terminates. Then mult of two terminating terms terminates because mult is defined recursively on its arguments and the arguments to mult are the results of exp(0, n) which are normal forms (or will be reduced to normal forms). Similarly, the rule for exp(BIT0(m), BIT0(n)) -> mult(exp(BIT0(m), n), exp(BIT0(m), n)): again, n is a subterm of BIT0(n), so the recursive calls on n are on a smaller argument. The same applies to other rules.

   Another potential issue: the rule SUC(BIT1(n)) -> BIT0(SUC(n)). This rule increases the "size" of the term in the sense that SUC(n) is built, but note that n is a subterm of BIT1(n), and then we have SUC(n) which will be reduced further. However, the recursive call is on n, which is smaller. For example, starting with SUC(BIT1(BIT1(0))):
      SUC(BIT1(BIT1(0))) -> BIT0(SUC(BIT1(0))) 
      Then SUC(BIT1(0)) -> BIT0(SUC(0)) 
      Then SUC(0) -> BIT1(0)
      So: BIT0(SUC(BIT1(0))) -> BIT0(BIT0(SUC(0))) -> BIT0(BIT0(BIT1(0)))
      Then we have BIT0(BIT0(BIT1(0))) which is a normal form? But wait, there is a rule BIT0(0)->0, but here we have BIT0(BIT0(BIT1(0))), and BIT1(0) is not 0, so no rule applies. So it terminates.

   Another example: PRE(BIT0(BIT1(0))). 
      PRE(BIT0(BIT1(0))) -> if(eq(BIT1(0),0), 0, BIT1(PRE(BIT1(0))))
      First, eq(BIT1(0),0) -> F (by rule eq(BIT1(n),0)->F). So we get if(F,0,BIT1(PRE(BIT1(0)))).
      Now, PRE(BIT1(0)) -> BIT0(0) (by rule PRE(BIT1(n))->BIT0(n)), and then BIT0(0)->0. So PRE(BIT1(0)) reduces to 0. Then we have BIT1(0) which is a normal form? But wait, the rule for PRE(BIT0(n)) produces BIT1(PRE(n)), and then PRE(n) is reduced. So the entire reduction terminates.

   Therefore, I believe the system is strongly normalizing.

   However, note: the rule for minus(BIT1(m), BIT0(n)) -> if(le(n,m), BIT1(minus(m,n)), 0). This rule uses le(n,m) which may require reduction. But le(n,m) is a term that is structurally smaller (because n and m are subterms of the original arguments) and by induction le(n,m) will reduce to T or F. Then, if it is T, we have BIT1(minus(m,n)), and minus(m,n) is a recursive call on (m,n) which are subterms. So it terminates.

   There is one more rule: mult(BIT0(m), BIT1(n)) -> plus(BIT0(m), BIT0(BIT0(mult(m,n)))). Here, the recursive call is mult(m,n) on subterms m and n. Then plus is called on BIT0(m) and BIT0(BIT0(...)), and plus is defined recursively and will terminate because its arguments are built from smaller terms. Similarly for other mult rules.

   Therefore, the system is strongly normalizing.

   But wait: what about the rule exp(0, BIT1(n)) -> 0? This is a base case. And exp(BIT0(m), BIT1(n)) -> mult(mult(BIT0(m), exp(BIT0(m),n)), exp(BIT0(m),n)). Here, the recursive calls are exp(BIT0(m),n) and n is a subterm of BIT1(n). So it is decreasing.

   After careful reconsideration, I still believe the system is strongly normalizing.

   However, the boundary issue: the previous answer used RPO and dependency pairs, which require choosing an order. But the instruction allows "any standard proof method" as long as it doesn't strengthen the system. RPO is a standard proof method and the choice of precedence is part of the proof method, not an addition to the system. Moreover, the fact that the rules are structurally recursive (recursive calls on subterms) is evident from the rules, and this is sufficient to apply a structural induction argument without explicitly invoking RPO. The structural induction argument is: define the size of a term as the maximum depth of nesting of defined symbols (or the structural height). Then, for each rule, the right-hand side has recursive calls only on terms of smaller size. However, note that in the rule SUC(BIT1(n)) -> BIT0(SUC(n)), the term SUC(n) has the same "size" as SUC(BIT1(n)) if we count the depth of SUC? But wait, n is a subterm of BIT1(n), so the argument to the recursive SUC is n, which is smaller than BIT1(n). Therefore, if we define a measure that is the structural height of the arguments that are being recursed on, then it decreases. Specifically, for a term f(t1,...,tk), we can consider the multiset of the structural heights of the ti. In the rule SUC(BIT1(n)), the argument is BIT1(n) which has height h, and the recursive call SUC(n) has argument n of height h-1. So the measure decreases.

   Therefore, a simple structural induction on the height of the term (or on the arguments) suffices. This measure is derivable from the syntax and does not require any external assumptions.

   Conclusion for the boundary: the method of structural induction (using the structural height of terms) is entirely based on the syntax and the rules (because we can see that recursive calls are on subterms of smaller height). Therefore, it is within the boundary.

   However, note: the system has rules that are not left-linear? Actually, the rules are left-linear (no repeated variables on the left). But that is not critical.

   One more potential pitfall: the rule plus(NUMERAL(m), NUMERAL(n)) -> NUMERAL(plus(m,n)). This rule recurses on (m,n) which are subterms of NUMERAL(m) and NUMERAL(n). But note: if we have a term like plus(NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), NUMERAL(0)), then:
      plus(NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), NUMERAL(0)) -> NUMERAL(plus(NUMERAL(0), 0))
      Then plus(NUMERAL(0),0) -> ? There is no rule for plus(NUMERAL(0),0) because the rules for plus require the first argument to be 0, BIT0, or BIT1, but NUMERAL(0) is not 0 (until reduced). However, there is a rule NUMERAL(0)->0, so we can reduce NUMERAL(0) to 0 first. Then plus(0,0)->0. So the reduction is:
        plus(NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), NUMERAL(0)) 
        ->* plus(NUMERAL(0), 0)   [after reducing inner NUMERAL(0) to 0? Wait, no: the rule for plus(NUMERAL(m),NUMERAL(n)) requires both arguments to be NUMERAL. So we must reduce the inner NUMERAL(0) first? Actually, the term is plus(NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), NUMERAL(0)). The left argument is NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), which is not 0, BIT0, or BIT1, so the only applicable rule is plus(NUMERAL(m),NUMERAL(n)) with m=NUMERAL(0) and n=0. So:
        plus(NUMERAL(NUMERAL(0)), NUMERAL(0)) -> NUMERAL(plus(NUMERAL(0), 0))
        Now, in NUMERAL(plus(NUMERAL(0),0)), we can reduce plus(NUMERAL(0),0). But there is no rule for plus(NUMERAL(0),0) because the rules for plus require the first argument to be 0, BIT0, or BIT1. However, we have a rule NUMERAL(0)->0, so we can reduce NUMERAL(0) to 0 inside the plus? But the plus is inside NUMERAL, and the rule for NUMERAL(0) applies only when the argument is 0. Here, the argument of NUMERAL is plus(NUMERAL(0),0), which is not 0. So we must reduce plus(NUMERAL(0),0) first. But to reduce plus(NUMERAL(0),0), we need a rule that matches. The rules for plus are:
          plus(NUMERAL(m),NUMERAL(n)) -> ...   [but the second argument is 0, not NUMERAL(n)]
          plus(0,0) -> 0
          plus(0,BIT0(n)) -> ...
          etc.
        There is no rule for plus(NUMERAL(0), 0). Therefore, plus(NUMERAL(0),0) is a normal form? But wait, there is a rule: plus(BIT0(n),0) -> BIT0(n), but NUMERAL(0) is not BIT0(n). Similarly, plus(BIT1(n),0) -> BIT1(n). And plus(0,0)->0. But NUMERAL(0) is not 0 until reduced. However, we have a rule NUMERAL(0)->0, so we can reduce the NUMERAL(0) in the first argument of plus to 0. But the term is plus(NUMERAL(0), 0). The subterm NUMERAL(0) can be reduced to 0 by the rule NUMERAL(0)->0. So:
          plus(NUMERAL(0), 0) -> plus(0, 0) -> 0.
        Therefore, the reduction continues. So the system is confluent enough to allow reductions in subterms. The key is that the rule NUMERAL(0)->0 can be applied to the subterm NUMERAL(0) inside plus. Therefore, the term plus(NUMERAL(0),0) is not a normal form because the subterm NUMERAL(0) can be reduced. So the reduction sequence is valid.

   This shows that the system allows reductions in any subterm (as term rewriting does), and the structural induction must account for the fact that reductions can occur in subterms. However, the measure (structural height) still decreases when we reduce a subterm. For example, reducing NUMERAL(0) to 0 reduces the height of that subterm. Then, after that reduction, the plus rule becomes applicable. So the entire reduction is covered by the structural induction: each reduction step either reduces a subterm (which by induction terminates) or applies a rule that reduces the "active" part (like the plus rule) which then has recursive calls on smaller subterms.

   Therefore, the structural induction argument holds.

   Final answers:

   1. The primary method used in the previous answer was structural induction (arguing that recursive calls are on strict syntactic subterms) supported by standard termination techniques (RPO, dependency pairs).
   2. The structural induction method relies on the well-foundedness of the subterm relation (or structural height), which is a property of the term algebra defined by the syntax. This is derivable from the syntax (finite trees) and does not require object-level assumptions (like the meaning of BIT0 as even numbers). The choice of precedence in RPO is a proof technique detail, but the core argument (recursive calls on subterms) is evident from the rules and syntax.
   3. No, the method does not place the proof outside the stated boundary because the well-foundedness of the subterm relation is a direct consequence of the syntax (finite term trees) and is not an imported axiom about the domain. The standard proof methods (like RPO) are allowed as they do not strengthen the system.
   4. Yes, the system is strongly normalizing. Every reduction sequence terminates because each step reduces the structural complexity of the term (in terms of the height of the active arguments in recursive calls) and there are no cycles or infinite reduction paths.

   However, note: the instruction says "raw assessment" and "briefly and directly". So I should be concise.

   But wait: there is a rule that might be problematic: 
        exp(0, BIT0(n)) -> mult(exp(0, n), exp(0, n))
   This rule duplicates the recursive call. However, as argued, since n is a proper subterm of BIT0(n), the recursive calls on n are on a smaller term. The duplication does not cause non-termination because the two copies of exp(0,n) are independent and each terminates by induction. Then mult of two terminating terms terminates. So it is safe.

   Another rule: 
        mult(BIT0(m), BIT1(n)) -> plus(BIT0(m), BIT0(BIT0(mult(m,n))))
   Here, the recursive call is mult(m,n) on subterms m and n. Then plus is called on BIT0(m) and BIT0(BIT0(...)), and plus is defined to terminate on its arguments. Since m and n are smaller, mult(m,n) terminates, and then plus terminates.

   Therefore, I stand by the conclusion.

   However, I recall that in term rewriting, duplication can sometimes cause non-termination if combined with other rules, but in this system, the duplication is only on terms that are guaranteed to terminate by structural induction. Since the duplicated subterms are on smaller arguments, and the system is orthogonal (no critical pairs that cause loops?), it should be fine.

   After re-examining, I do not see any non-terminating reduction sequence.

   Final concise answers:

   1. Structural induction on term size (arguing recursive calls occur only on strict syntactic subterms), with support from standard termination frameworks (RPO/dependency pairs).
   2. The core structural induction relies solely on the well-foundedness of the subterm relation—a syntactic property of finite terms derivable from the given signature. No object-level semantics (e.g., numeral interpretations) are used. Precedence choices in RPO are proof artifacts, not system modifications.
   3. No. The method operates strictly within boundaries: syntax-derived well-founded orders and rule inspection require no imported axioms or system strengthening.
   4. Yes. All rules either reduce structural size or recurse strictly on smaller subterms; duplication occurs only on terminating subcomputations. No cycles or infinite paths exist per rule inspection.