The question is: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivabl...First, the system is:

(VAR x y n)

(RULES

  F(x, y, Z) -> x

  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))

)

It's a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding, meaning free variables, and no imported axioms.

Strong normalization: every term has a finite reduction sequence to normal form, no infinite reductions.

To assess if SN can be established from this alone, without additional assumptions.

From the rules, F with third arg Z reduces to x (first arg), and with S(n) to G(F with n).

Assuming the 3rd arg is a natural number built from Z and S, and recursion on it, it terminates.

But "from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules"

Structural axioms probably mean things like associativity, commutativity, or properties of S 0 etc., or that terms are well-founded under constructor order.

Object-level assumptions: like what F,G represent.

From the rules alone, in pure TRS, without assuming the signature has Z,S with Z constructor, S successor with no cycles, etc., can we prove SN?

In standard TRS, if the 3rd arg doesn't match Z or S, no reduction, and when it does, it goes to smaller n.

But if n can be any term, and if I have F(x,y, F(a,b,c)), it won't match Z or S unless F is Z or S, so no reduction for that.

To have infinite reduction, I'd need a sequence where each step applies a rule, creating a new term that allows further infinite steps.

Let's see if non-termination is possible.

Suppose a term T = F(a, b, S(F(c,d,Z)))

Then, the 3rd arg is S(F(c,d,Z)), 3rd arg matches S(n) with n=F(c,d,Z), so T -> G( F(a,b, F(c,d,Z)) )

Now, in G( F(a,b, F(c,d,Z)) ), the F has 3rd arg F(c,d,Z), which is not Z or S (assuming 3-ary F != Z,S), so no reduction there.

But I can reduce the inner F(c,d,Z): since F(c,d,Z) matches F( , ,Z) -> c , so G(F(a,b, F(c,d,Z))) -> G(F(a,b, c))

Then G(F(a,b ,c)) , if c is not making F match, no further.

Finite.

Another try: use the rule to produce S.

As I had: let T = F(a,b, F(S(c), y, Z))

Inner F(S(c),y,Z) -> S(c) because F(any,y,Z)-> first arg =S(c)

So T -> F(a,b, S(c))

Then F(a,b,S(c)) -> G(F(a,b,c))

Finite again.

Notice that when I do F(x,y,Z)->x , if x contains S, it introduces S, but the number of S's introduced is from the 1 F being removed.

To have infinite, perhaps if I can create a chain that keeps applying rule2 infinitely, but since each rule2 consumes one S, and to have infinite S's I'd need to create infinitely many S's, but in finite term, can't.

Since all terms are finite, the total number of S and Z symbols is finite in any term.

When I apply rule1, I can introduce S's from x, but x is a subterm, so finite number.

Rule2 consumes one S (the outer one), and the n has fewer S's in that branch.

Rule1 when applied to an F with 3rd Z, replaces with x which has its own S count, but since that F is removed, and if y has S's they are lost.

So, one can define a measure: the multiset of all third-arguments' "heights" or something, but more precisely, since #F never increases (stays or dec), and when #F stays, #S decreases.

When #F decreases (rule1), #S may increase but bounded, but to make a global measure, perhaps use a pair (#F, #S_total), but when rule1, #F dec, #S may inc by amount 0 to some finite, but since #F dec by at least 1, and #S inc by at most the size of x which is less than current term size, but for termination proof, we need a well-founded order independent of size.

But in practice, for proving termination of TRS, we use such 1st order measures or higher.

But since the system is given, and we can derive from rules that #F dec or #S dec, we can use lex order (#F, #S) where for rule1, although #S may inc, wait does it?

Let's calculate #S precisely.