We are asked to reconsider the previous answer about strong normalization (termination) of the given rewrite system, with a focus on whether the method used relies on assumptions beyond the rewrite rules themselves.

The system:
(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))
)

Previous answer claimed strong normalization can be established using a lexicographic path order (LPO) with precedence F > G and F > S, and lexicographic status for F.

Now, the questions:

1. What primary method did your previous answer use?
   - Lexicographic Path Order (LPO) with a specific precedence and status.

2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
   - Yes. The method requires choosing:
     - A precedence relation (F > G, F > S) which is not given by the rules. The rules do not specify any ordering of symbols.
     - The status for F (lexicographic) which is a choice (could be multiset, etc.).
     - The use of LPO itself is a choice of reduction order; the rules do not dictate which order to use.
   - Additionally, the argument that "S(n) > n by subterm property" in the context of LPO relies on the fact that in the term S(n), n is a subterm. However, the subterm property is inherent to the term structure, but the ordering choice (that we compare the third argument lexicographically and that we require S(n) > n) is part of the LPO setup. The rules do not specify that we must use an order that respects the subterm property in this way for the third argument.

3. If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?
   - The boundary is: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". The choice of a specific reduction order (with precedence and status) is an external proof technique. The rules themselves do not provide the precedence or the status. Therefore, the method relies on assumptions (the chosen precedence and status) that are not derivable from the rules. Hence, the method is outside the stated boundary because it imports a specific ordering choice that is not fixed by the rewrite rules.

4. Separately from boundary compliance, do you still think the system is strongly normalizing?
   - Yes. The system is strongly normalizing. We can see that:
     - The only redexes are of the form F(..., Z) or F(..., S(n)).
     - For F(x, y, Z), it reduces to x, which is a subterm and thus the term size decreases (if we consider the size of the term, but note: x could be a large term, but the redex is replaced by a subterm, so the overall term size decreases by at least the size of the redex minus the size of x, but note: x is a variable and in the context of the whole term, replacing F(x,y,Z) by x might not reduce the size if x is shared? However, in term rewriting, we consider the term structure: the redex F(x,y,Z) is replaced by the variable x, which in the context of the current term is instantiated by the actual argument. But note: the rule is applied at the root of the redex. The key is that the third argument is being "peeled" until it becomes Z. Specifically, for a term F(t1, t2, t3), if t3 is a numeral (built from Z and S), then the number of S's in t3 determines the number of times rule 2 can be applied before rule 1 applies. Each application of rule 2 replaces the term with G(F(t1, t2, n)) where n is the predecessor numeral. Then, when the third argument becomes Z, rule 1 applies and reduces to t1. There is no rule that can reintroduce F or S in a way that would cause non-termination. Also, note that G is a constructor that does not have any rewrite rule, so once we get a term starting with G, it cannot be reduced further unless the argument of G is reducible. But the argument of G is F(t1, t2, n), which will eventually reduce to t1 (if n is a numeral) and then the G will remain. However, the reduction of F(t1, t2, n) is independent and will terminate because the numeral n has finite depth. Therefore, every reduction sequence is finite. This argument does not rely on an external order but on the structure of the terms and the fact that the third argument of F is being reduced in a well-founded manner (by the structure of the numeral). However, note: the rules do not assume that the third argument is always a numeral. What if the third argument is not a numeral? For example, if we have F(a, b, c) where c is a variable or a term not starting with S or Z? Then, no rule applies, so it is a normal form. The only time rules apply is when the third argument is Z or S(n). Therefore, the reduction is only possible when the third argument is a numeral (in the sense of being built from Z and S). Since the rules only match on Z and S, and the reduction on the third argument is strictly decreasing in the "numeral depth" (if we define the depth of Z as 0 and S(n) as 1+depth(n)), and the depth is a natural number, the reduction must terminate. Moreover, the rules do not allow creating new numerals in the third argument of F in a way that would increase the depth: rule 2 replaces S(n) by n (in the recursive call) and wraps the result in G. The G does not affect the reduction of the inner F. Therefore, the system is strongly normalizing.

However, note: the argument above uses the concept of "numeral depth" and the fact that the natural numbers are well-founded. But is that an "object-level assumption"? The rules themselves do not state that the terms built from S and Z are well-founded. However, in term rewriting, we work over the set of finite terms. The well-foundedness of the subterm relation on finite terms is a meta-theoretic fact. Specifically, the measure we can use is the size of the third argument of F when it is a numeral (i.e., the number of S symbols). Since the terms are finite, this number is finite and decreases with each application of rule 2. Rule 1 removes the F entirely. Therefore, we can define a measure on terms: for a term t, consider the multiset of the "numeral depths" of every occurrence of F whose third argument is a numeral. But note: the rules only reduce F at the root of a redex, and the reduction of one F does not affect the numeral depth of another F. However, a simpler measure: the maximum numeral depth among all F-redexes in the term. But actually, we can use a recursive path order or simply observe that the system is orthogonal and has no critical pairs, and the reduction is clearly terminating by the structure of the third argument.

But the key point for question 4: independently of the boundary, the system is strongly normalizing because:
- The only possible reductions occur on terms of the form F(..., numeral), and the numeral has finite depth. Each reduction either removes the F (rule 1) or reduces the depth of the numeral in the recursive call (rule 2). Since the depth is a natural number and decreases, and there are no rules that can increase the depth of a numeral in the third argument of F (because the rules only deconstruct the numeral and do not construct new numerals in the third argument of F in a way that would be used in a redex — note: the G symbol is introduced, but G has no rules and does not contain F in a position that would be reduced until the inner F is reduced, and the inner F has a numeral of smaller depth), the reduction must terminate.

However, note: what if we have a term like F(x, y, S(S(Z)))? 
Step 1: F(x,y,S(S(Z))) -> G(F(x,y,S(Z)))
Step 2: G(F(x,y,S(Z))) -> G(G(F(x,y,Z)))  [reducing the inner F]
Step 3: G(G(F(x,y,Z))) -> G(G(x))
Now, no more rules apply. So it terminates.

What if we have nested F? For example, F(F(a,b,Z), c, S(Z))? 
First, the outer F: F(F(a,b,Z), c, S(Z)) -> G(F(F(a,b,Z), c, Z))
Then, the inner F in the argument of G: F(F(a,b,Z), c, Z) -> F(a,b,Z) [by rule 1, because third argument is Z]
Then, F(a,b,Z) -> a.
So: G(F(F(a,b,Z), c, Z)) -> G(F(a,b,Z)) -> G(a). Terminates.

There is no way to create an infinite reduction because every reduction sequence on a given F-redex is bounded by the depth of the numeral in its third argument, and the reduction of one F-redex does not create new F-redexes with numerals of greater depth. In fact, the only new F-redex created by rule 2 is with a numeral of depth one less. And rule 1 removes the F-redex. Also, note that the arguments x and y are not reduced by the rules of F (unless they contain redexes of their own, but the rules for F do not reduce x and y; however, if x or y contain redexes, those redexes might be reduced independently, but that does not affect the termination of the F-redexes because the reduction of x and y is independent and, by induction on the structure of terms, we can assume they terminate. However, this requires an induction on the term structure. But in term rewriting, termination is usually proven by a reduction order that is monotonic, so that reductions in subterms are accounted for. However, in this specific system, the rules for F do not require reducing x and y to reduce the F-redex. But if x or y contain redexes, they can be reduced at any time, but that does not interfere with the termination of the F-redex because the F-redex can be reduced independently. However, to prove strong normalization, we must ensure that any reduction sequence (including reductions inside x and y) terminates. But note: the system has only two rules, and they only apply to terms with root symbol F and third argument Z or S(n). Therefore, reductions inside x and y (if they contain F-redexes) are independent and will terminate by the same reasoning. This suggests a proof by structural induction on terms: 
- Base: terms without F are normal forms (since G has no rules, and other symbols? The system only has F, G, S, Z, and variables. But note: the rules only rewrite F. So any term not containing F is a normal form. 
- For a term containing F, consider the redexes. Each redex of the form F(..., numeral) will be reduced in a finite number of steps (bounded by the numeral depth) to a term without that F (replaced by x, which may contain other F's, but then we apply induction on the structure of x). However, when we reduce F(x,y,Z) to x, we are replacing the F-term by x, which is a subterm. Since x is a proper subterm of the original term (in the sense of the term structure at the moment of reduction), and the term size (number of symbols) decreases, we can use a simple size measure. But wait: when we reduce F(x,y,S(n)) to G(F(x,y,n)), the size of the term increases: because we replace F(x,y,S(n)) (which has, say, size = size(x)+size(y)+size(n)+c) by G(F(x,y,n)) (size = 1 + [size(x)+size(y)+size(n)+c']). However, the key is that the numeral depth in the third argument of the inner F is reduced. 

A standard way is to use a lexicographic combination of measures: 
- First, the number of F symbols in the term (but note: rule 2 preserves the number of F symbols: it replaces one F by one F inside G, so the count remains the same). 
- Second, the sum of the numeral depths of all F-redexes (where numeral depth is defined only for F whose third argument is a numeral; if not, we can consider depth 0 or ignore). But rule 2: when we reduce F(x,y,S(n)), we remove one F-redex with depth d (where d = depth of S(n) = 1 + depth(n)) and introduce a new F-redex (inside G) with depth = depth(n) = d-1. So the sum of depths decreases by 1. Rule 1: removes an F-redex with depth 0 (if we define depth of Z as 0) and replaces it by x, which may contain F-redexes, but the depth of the removed redex was 0, and the new term x has F-redexes that were already present in x (so the sum of depths of F-redexes in the whole term might change arbitrarily? Not exactly: because x is a subterm of the original term, and the original term had the F-redex we are reducing, and x might have had its own F-redexes. However, when we replace F(x,y,Z) by x, we are removing the outer F and leaving x. The F-redexes that were inside x are still there, but we are removing one F-redex (the one we reduced) which had depth 0. So the total sum of depths of F-redexes might decrease by 0 (if we count the depth of the removed redex as 0) but we also remove one F symbol. However, the problem is that x might be a large term with many F-redexes, but the key is that the reduction of the outer F does not increase the depths of the inner F-redexes. 

Alternatively, we can use the following measure for a term t: 
  μ(t) = (number of F symbols in t, total numeral depth of all F-redexes in t) 
with lexicographic order, where numeral depth for an F-redex is the number of S's in the third argument (if it is a numeral; if not, we can set it to 0, but note: if the third argument is not a numeral, then the F is not reducible, so we don't care). However, the rules only apply when the third argument is Z or S(n), so for reducible F-redexes, the numeral depth is well-defined. 

But note: when we reduce F(x,y,S(n)) to G(F(x,y,n)):
  - The number of F symbols remains the same (one F is replaced by one F inside G).
  - The numeral depth of the specific redex: originally, the redex had depth = d (for S(n), d = 1 + depth(n)), and after reduction, the new F-redex (inside G) has depth = depth(n) = d-1. However, the term G(F(x,y,n)) might have other F-redexes in x, y, or n? But the reduction is at the root of the redex, so x, y, n are not changed. Therefore, the only change in the multiset of numeral depths of F-redexes is: we remove a redex of depth d and add a redex of depth d-1. Therefore, the total sum of numeral depths decreases by 1. Also, the number of F symbols remains the same. So the measure (count_F, sum_depths) decreases lexicographically: the first component stays the same, the second decreases.

When we reduce F(x,y,Z) to x:
  - The number of F symbols decreases by at least 1 (we remove one F, and x may contain some F's, but the net change is: we remove one F and leave the F's that were in x. However, the F we removed was one occurrence, and x is a subterm that was already present. So the total count of F symbols in the whole term becomes: (original count - 1) + (count of F in x) - (but wait, x was already counted in the original term? Actually, in the original term F(x,y,Z), the subterms x, y, Z are part of the term. The count of F symbols in the entire term includes the F at the root and any F in x, y, Z. After reduction, we have x, so the count becomes the count of F in x. Therefore, the change in count_F is: (count_F(x)) - (1 + count_F(x) + count_F(y) + count_F(Z)) = -1 - count_F(y) - count_F(Z). Since count_F(y) and count_F(Z) are nonnegative, the count_F decreases by at least 1. The sum of depths: we remove the redex of depth 0 (for Z) and leave the F-redexes that were in x. But the sum of depths might change arbitrarily? However, because the first component (count_F) decreases, the lexicographic measure decreases regardless of the second component.

Therefore, the measure (count_F, sum_depths) is a well-founded measure (lexicographic order on N x N) that decreases with every reduction step. This measure is defined purely syntactically from the term structure and the rules (we only need to know which symbols are F, S, Z, and how to compute the numeral depth for reducible F-redexes). The numeral depth is computed by counting the number of S symbols until Z, which is a syntactic property of the term. This measure does not require any external precedence or ordering choice; it is derived directly from the structure of the terms and the rules.

However, note: the measure requires that we can compute the numeral depth for the third argument of F only when it is a numeral (i.e., built from S and Z). But what if the third argument is not a numeral? For example, if we have F(a, b, c) where c is a variable or a term starting with G? Then, this F is not reducible, so it does not contribute to the sum_depths (we can define its depth as 0 or ignore it). In the measure, we only consider reducible redexes? Actually, for the purpose of the measure, we can define for every occurrence of F in the term:
  depth(F(t1,t2,t3)) = 
      if t3 is Z -> 0
      if t3 is S(t) -> 1 + depth(F(t1,t2,t))? No, wait: we don't want recursion. Actually, we want the depth of the numeral in the third argument. So:
      depth_numeral(t3) = 
          if t3 = Z -> 0
          if t3 = S(u) -> 1 + depth_numeral(u)
          otherwise -> undefined (but for non-numerals, we can set to 0 or a special value, but note: if it's not a numeral, the F is not reducible, so we don't care about its depth for reduction steps. However, in the measure, we want to account for the potential reduction steps. So for non-reducible F, we can set the depth to 0, and they don't contribute to the sum_depths in a way that would be reduced. But in the reduction steps, only reducible F-redexes are reduced, and when reduced, they either disappear (rule 1) or their depth decreases (rule 2). For non-reducible F, they remain and do not cause reduction, so they don't affect termination. Therefore, in the measure, we can define:
      For each occurrence of F(t1,t2,t3) in the term:
          d = 
             if t3 is a numeral (i.e., ground term built from S and Z) then the number of S's in t3
             else 0   [but note: if t3 is not a numeral, the F is not reducible, so we don't need to count it for the reduction steps. However, to have a measure that decreases only on reductions, we can set d=0 for non-numerals, and then when a reduction happens on a reducible F, the measure changes as described. But what if during reduction, a non-numeral becomes a numeral? For example, if we have F(x, y, S(n)) and n is a variable, then initially the third argument is S(n) which is not a numeral (because n is a variable) — wait, no: in term rewriting, variables can be instantiated. However, in the context of strong normalization, we consider all possible reduction sequences starting from any term. But the rules are left-linear and non-overlapping? Actually, the rules have variables, and when we apply a rule, we substitute the variables. However, the key is: for a redex to be applicable, the third argument must match Z or S(n). If the third argument is S(n) where n is a variable, then it matches, and we can reduce. After reduction, we get G(F(x,y,n)), and now the third argument of the inner F is n (a variable). Then, unless n is instantiated to a numeral by further reductions (but there are no rules that reduce variables; variables are placeholders for terms, and in a reduction sequence, the term is ground? No, term rewriting allows open terms, but strong normalization requires that every reduction sequence terminates, even for open terms. However, in open terms, if we have a variable in the third argument, then F(x,y,n) with n a variable is not reducible because the rules require the third argument to be Z or S(something). A variable does not match Z or S(n) unless it is instantiated. But in a reduction sequence, variables are not instantiated by reductions; reductions only replace redexes. Therefore, in an open term, if we have F(x,y,n) and n is a variable, then it is not a redex. So the reduction stops. Therefore, the only reductions that occur are when the third argument is a ground numeral (built from S and Z) or when it is S applied to a term that eventually reduces to a numeral? But note: the rules do not reduce the third argument; they only match on its head symbol. Therefore, for F(x,y,t) to be reducible, t must have head symbol Z or S. If t is S(u), then we reduce to G(F(x,y,u)), and then we require u to have head symbol Z or S for further reduction. Therefore, the reduction of a particular F-redex requires that the third argument is a numeral (in the sense of being a term whose head symbols are S until Z). If at any point the third argument is not of that form (e.g., a variable, or a term starting with G), then the reduction of that F-redex stops. 

Therefore, in the measure, for an occurrence of F(t1,t2,t3):
   d = the length of the maximal chain of S starting from t3 until a non-S, non-Z symbol or variable. But actually, we only care about the reducible steps. However, for the purpose of the measure that decreases on every reduction step, we can define:
   d = 
        if t3 is Z -> 0
        if t3 is S(u) -> 1 + d' where d' is the depth of u (but recursively, but note: we don't want to recurse into u if u is not a numeral? Actually, for the reduction to proceed, we need the entire chain to be S and Z. But in the reduction step for F(x,y,S(n)), we don't require that n is a numeral; we only require that the head symbol is S. After reduction, we get F(x,y,n), and then if n is not reducible (e.g., a variable), then the inner F is not reducible. So the depth we care about is only the "surface" depth: the number of consecutive S symbols at the top of the third argument. For example:
          F(x,y,S(S(Z))) -> depth=2
          F(x,y,S(x)) -> depth=1 (because the third argument is S(x), and x is a variable, so we can only reduce once: to G(F(x,y,x)), and then F(x,y,x) is not reducible because x is a variable).

Therefore, we can define for any term t3:
   depth(t3) = 
        0 if t3 is Z
        1 + depth(u) if t3 = S(u)  [but wait, this would be infinite if u is not terminating? No, because we are defining a syntactic measure on the current term, not on the reduction of u. We want the current syntactic depth of the numeral prefix. So:
        depth(t3) = 
            if t3 is Z -> 0
            if t3 is S(u) -> 1 + depth(u)   [but this is recursive and may not terminate if u is not a numeral? However, in a finite term, this recursion is finite. But if u is not a numeral, we still compute the depth of the S-chain. For example, S(G(Z)): depth = 1 + depth(G(Z)). But depth(G(Z)): G(Z) is not Z and not S, so we need a base case. Actually, we want the length of the initial S-chain until a non-S symbol. So:
            depth(t3) = 
                0 if the head symbol of t3 is not S and not Z? But for Z, we want 0. For S(u), we want 1 + depth(u) only if we are counting the chain. However, for the purpose of the reduction steps available for this F, the number of times we can apply rule 2 followed by rule 1 is exactly the length of the initial S-chain until a non-S symbol that is not Z? Actually, no: we can apply rule 2 as long as the third argument has head symbol S. When we get to a term that is not S and not Z, we stop. But rule 1 only applies when it is Z. So if we have F(x,y,S(G(Z))), then:
                  F(x,y,S(G(Z))) -> G(F(x,y,G(Z)))
                and then F(x,y,G(Z)) is not reducible because G(Z) is not Z and not S(something). So only one reduction step.

Therefore, the relevant measure for an F-redex is the number of consecutive S symbols at the beginning of the third argument, until a symbol that is not S. But note: if we hit Z, then we can do one more step (rule 1). However, in the reduction sequence for a single F-redex, the number of reduction steps is exactly the number of S symbols plus one (for the final Z). But in the context of the whole term, we care about the immediate effect of one reduction step.

For the measure that decreases on every reduction step globally, we can use:
   μ(t) = (number of F symbols that are "active", i.e., whose third argument has head symbol S or is Z, but actually we can use a simpler measure: the total number of S symbols in the entire term that are in the third argument position of some F. But that might not be accurate.

Alternatively, the standard and simplest proof is to note that the system is a "recursive" system on the third argument, and since the third argument is being structurally decomposed (and terms are finite), termination follows. This is a standard argument in term rewriting for systems that are "simply terminating" or "structurally recursive". However, the question is whether this argument relies on external assumptions.

But for question 4, independently of the boundary, the system is strongly normalizing because:
   - Every reduction sequence is finite. This can be seen by induction on the structure of terms. 
   - Base: terms with no F are normal forms.
   - For a term with F at the root: 
        * If the third argument is Z, then one step reduces to x, and by induction x is strongly normalizing (since x is a subterm, and by induction hypothesis all subterms are SN), and then the whole term reduces to a SN term.
        * If the third argument is S(n), then one step reduces to G(F(x,y,n)). Now, F(x,y,n) is a subterm of the original term? Not exactly: n is a subterm of the original third argument, so F(x,y,n) is built from subterms of the original term. By induction hypothesis, F(x,y,n) is SN (because the term F(x,y,n) is "smaller" in the sense of the third argument having fewer S symbols, but we need a well-founded relation). However, we can use the lexicographic path order argument as a valid mathematical proof, but the question is about the boundary.

But for the purpose of question 4, the answer is yes, the system is strongly normalizing. The proof can be done by a measure that is intrinsic to the term structure (like the one I described with (count_F, sum of the lengths of the S-chains in the third argument of every F)), and this measure is computable from the term without external assumptions. However, the choice of this measure is still an external proof technique. But the fact of strong normalization is true.

Now, back to the boundary question: the original instruction is whether strong normalization can be established *from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules*. 

The key is: what does "established from the presented rewrite system alone" mean? It means that the proof should not rely on any external framework (like choosing a specific reduction order) that is not forced by the rules. However, in term rewriting theory, termination proofs often require choosing a reduction order. The rules themselves do not come with a proof of termination; we have to provide one. The question is whether the termination is "obvious" from the rules without any additional machinery.

But the instruction says: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". The phrase "structural axioms" might refer to axioms about the structure of terms (like the subterm property) which are part of the meta-theory of term rewriting. However, the use of a reduction order like LPO imports a specific method that requires choices (precedence) that are not in the rules.

However, there is a proof that does not require choosing a precedence: the measure I described (count_F, sum of the S-chain lengths in the third argument of each F) is directly suggested by the rules. The rules show that the third argument is being decomposed, and the number of S symbols is decreasing. This measure is derivable from the rules: the rules mention S and Z, and the pattern of recursion. Therefore, one could argue that the measure is "derivable from the given rules". But is it? The rules do not explicitly state to count the S symbols. However, the structure of the rules (matching on S and Z) implies that the third argument is being used as a natural number, and the recursion is on that number. In the context of term rewriting, it is standard to use the size of the argument being recursed on.

But the boundary is strict: "beyond what is derivable from the given rules". The given rules do not state that the terms are well-founded or that the subterm relation is well-founded. However, the well-foundedness of the subterm relation on finite terms is a foundational assumption of term rewriting systems (it's part of the definition of terms being finite trees). So perhaps that is allowed.

However, the previous answer used LPO with a chosen precedence, which is an external choice. Therefore, for question 3: yes, the method (LPO with specific precedence) relies on assumptions (the precedence) not fixed by the rules, so it is outside the boundary.

But is there a method that is entirely within the boundary? For example, if the system were obviously terminating by a trivial measure (like rule 1 reduces size, rule 2 also reduces size) but rule 2 does not reduce size: F(x,y,S(n)) has size = size(x)+size(y)+size(n)+c1, and G(F(x,y,n)) has size = 1 + size(x)+size(y)+size(n)+c2, which is larger if c2 >= c1-1. Typically, the size increases. So size alone does not work.

However, the argument by induction on the third argument is standard. But induction requires a well-founded relation. The well-founded relation here is the subterm relation on the third argument. Specifically, in rule 2, the recursive call has n, which is a subterm of S(n). The subterm relation is well-founded on finite terms. This well-foundedness is a meta-theoretic fact about the term algebra, not an object-level axiom. The question is: is the well-foundedness of the subterm relation considered an "imported structural axiom"? 

In the context of term rewriting, the fact that terms are finite and the subterm relation is well-founded is part of the foundational setup. It is not an "object-level assumption" beyond the rules. The rules are defined over a term algebra, and the term algebra has the property that the subterm relation is well-founded. This is not an additional axiom imported for the proof; it is inherent to the definition of the terms. Therefore, a proof by induction on the structure of the third argument (using the subterm relation) might be considered within the boundary.

However, the previous answer did not use this induction argument; it used LPO. The LPO method, while valid, requires additional choices (precedence) that are not inherent to the rules. Therefore, the specific method used in the previous answer is outside the boundary.

To summarize:

1. Primary method: Lexicographic Path Order (LPO) with chosen precedence (F > G, F > S) and lexicographic status for F.
2. Yes, the method relies on the choice of precedence and status, which are not fixed by the rewrite rules. The rules do not specify any ordering of symbols.
3. Yes, because the boundary prohibits importing assumptions beyond what is derivable from the rules. The precedence choice is an external assumption not derivable from the rules.
4. Yes, the system is strongly normalizing. This can be proven by a measure based on the structure of the terms (e.g., lexicographic combination of the number of F symbols and the sum of the lengths of the S-chains in the third argument of each F), or by induction on the subterm relation of the third argument. The well-foundedness of the subterm relation on finite terms is a foundational aspect of term rewriting systems and not an additional object-level axiom.

However, note: for question 4, the answer is "yes" regardless of the boundary. The system is indeed strongly normalizing.

Final answers:

1. Lexicographic Path Order (LPO) with a specific precedence relation (F > G, F > S) and lexicographic status for F.
2. Yes. The method requires choosing a precedence relation and status for symbols, which are not specified or derivable from the rewrite rules themselves.
3. Yes. The boundary prohibits importing assumptions beyond what is derivable from the rules; the precedence choice is an external assumption not fixed by the rules.
4. Yes. The system is strongly normalizing, as every reduction sequence is finite due to the structural decomposition of the third argument of F (which is well-founded on finite terms).