The question is: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented calculus alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from...The task is to assess if strong normalization of this system can be established from the presented calculus alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what's derivable from the syntax and rewrite rules. I need to use standard proof methods without adding extra rules, guards, etc.

First, understand strong normalization: every reduction sequence terminates, no infinite chains.

The system is a typed term rewriting system with Trace terms and one-step reductions defined by Step.

To prove SN, typically we use a measure that decreases with each reduction.

I need to see if such a measure can be defined from the given rules alone.

Let's look at the rules:

1 R_mango_grape: mango (grape t) → plum   (decreases size?)

2  R_peach_plum_left: peach plum t → t

3  R_peach_plum_right: peach t plum → t

4  R_peach_cancel: peach t t → t

5 R_banana_zero: banana b s plum → b

6  R_apple_orange: banana b s (grape n) → pear s (banana b s n)

7  R_cherry_refl: cherry a a → plum

8  R_cherry_diff: cherry a b (a ≠ b) → mango (peach a b)

Important: the reduction is probably under context, but the definition is inductive for the base cases, but for SN we consider the full relation.

But the prompt says "the given syntax and rewrite rules", so perhaps Step is the relation.

Notice that in rule 6 banana b s (grape n) → pear s (banana b s n)

If I have banana b s (grape (grape m)), it reduces to pear s (banana b s (grape m)), then if I reduce the inner banana b s (grape m) to pear s (banana b s m), so pear s (pear s (banana b s m))

But the outer pear doesn't reduce, unless the whole thing matches other rules.

But if I keep applying to the inner, it terminates.

But is there a loop? Seems not.

The problem might be with the conditional rule using ≠ .

In 8, it uses a ≠ b to apply the rule.

To prove termination, we need to consider cases when a = b or not.

When a = b, cherry a a → plum by rule 7.

When a ≠ b, → mango (peach a b)

peach a b, if a and b are such that it can reduce further.

But since a and b are fixed, and ≠ is decidable from syntax, because constructors are different.

For these specific constructors, equality is decidable by pattern matching on constructors.

So, in the calculus, since no external assumptions, we can use that equality is decidable or case on whether constructors match.

I think it can be established, because we can define a suitable measure based on the structure.

For example, assign ranks or use lexicographic order on the multiset of subterms or something.

The banana rule looks like it unfolds the recursion on n, and since n is smaller ( grape n has "height" larger but the arg n is smaller), it terminates.

This might be modeling some non-terminating thing but actually terminates.

I recall that in some rewriting systems with conditionals, SN might require more.

But the prompt says "can strong normalization be established from the presented calculus alone"

I need to give raw assessment: yes or no, with confidence.

I think the answer is no, because without additional assumptions like on equality or something, or perhaps because of the side condition, it requires proving properties of ≠ which might need extra.

The prompt says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is deriv able from the given syntax and rewrite rules"

Structural axioms probably mean like congruence or equality axioms.

So, perhaps it cannot, because to prove SN we need to use that equality is decidable or something not derivable from rules alone.

The rules are given, and syntax is inductive, so in Lean we can prove things by induction.

I think it can be established, because we can do structural induction on the Trace terms.

For example, to prove that for all t, the relation Step is well-founded, i.e. no infinite sequence.

By induction on t: if t not redex, done. If it is, then it reduces to some u, and by IH on u (if u is "smaller" structurally), but as I saw earlier, u can be larger in size, so not.

For example, take t = banana b s (grape plum), reduces to pear s (banana b s plum)

If s is banana or something large, pear.. is bigger.

So induction on size doesn't work.

We need a different well-founded relation.

Perhaps define the measure as the multiset of sizes or something.

For banana, when reducing, the n is "decreased" in its "value".

But since n can be arbitrary term, not just 0,1,2.. , if n is not grape wrapped, it doesn't reduce.

To define a global measure, perhaps the pair (height of term, something).

It might be possible with a suitable order.

But perhaps the assessment is that it cannot be established alone, because we need additional properties like termination of equality or something.

Let's search my knowledge: this looks like it might be from a paper on Lean or formalization of rewrite systems.

The fruits: plum, grape, mango, peach, pear, banana, cherry.

Perhaps it's a joke on fruits.

Anyway, I need to decide.

I think the answer is no, because the size can increase, and without additional assumptions like on the equality or structural induction properly, or perhaps because the system as presented has the side condition, and proving SN requires proving that the system is terminating assuming the rules, but it might require proving that peach a b reduces or something.

Let's see if there is an infinite sequence.

Suppose we have a term that by reducing creates a cherry that then reduces to something that creates back.

For example, suppose we have mango (grape (cherry a b)), with a≠b.

Then it reduces by R_mango_grape to plum, regardless.

No loop.

Or if I have cherry a b → mango (peach a b), then if I have something around it.

But no way to cycle because no rule produces cherry or mango with grape in a way that loops.

So no infinite sequence exists.

But to prove it in general, without extra, perhaps yes by complete case analysis on the 7 constructors of Trace.

Since Trace is inductive with 7 constructors, we can do induction on the outermost constructor of the term.

That is structural induction.

For each case on head constructor of t, we can show that if it reduces, it reduces to a term with "better" head or smaller.

But for example for head banana, if third is grape n, reduces to pear s (banana..), now the reduct has head pear, which we can assign rank lower.

So we can assign ranks to head constructors.

Let rank(plum)=0, rank(grape)=1, rank(mango)=2, rank(peach)= 3, rank(pear)=4, rank(banana)=5, rank(cherry)=6

Then for a term, the rank is rank of its head.

When reducing:

- If head mango, arg grape: to plum rank0 <6

- head peach, if cond: to t, rank of 1 arg < rank peach=3

- head banana, if third plum: to b, rank of b <5

- if third grape: to pear s (banana..), head pear rank4 <5

- head cherry: if = to plum 0<6, if ≠ to mango (peach 3+2) head mango rank2 <6

So in all cases, the head rank of reduct is strictly less than rank of t.

Yes! For the cases where it reduces.

If not reducible, no reduction.

Therefore, the rank of head decreases with each reduction step.

Since rank is finite (0 1 2 3 4 5 6), it decreases, so no infinite chain.

Perfect!

Is this using only the given? Yes, we assign ranks based on constructors, which are given in syntax.

And for the ≠ case, we use it to choose which rule, but since when = we use 7 to plum rank0, when ≠ use 8 to mango rank2.

And we don't need extra assumptions, because the choice is based on the rule.

For proving that the reduct has lower rank, yes.

For example in banana succ: to pear, rank4 <5.

In cherry diff: to mango rank 2<6.

And we need to know that the new term's head is that, yes.

No need for size, just the rank of the outermost constructor.

And since when projecting like peach to t, t has its own rank <=6, but wait, rank of t could be 6 if t starts with 6, but wait, is 3 > rank of any? No, rank peach=3, but t could have rank 6 >3, so when reducing peach to t, rank may increase!

Oh, damn, same problem.

For peach plum t → t, if t has high rank, rank increases.