The question is: Can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivabl...The system is:

(VAR x y n)

(RULES

  F(x, y, Z) -> x

  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))

)

It's a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding, so probably terms are built with F 3-ary, G 2-ary, S 1-ary, Z 0-ary, and variables x,y,n free or something.

Strong normalization means no infinite reduction sequences, every term reduces to normal form in finite steps.

In this system, reductions only happen inside F when the third arg is Z or S(something).

If the third arg is not a numeral built from Z,S, like if it's a variable or G(something), then F doesn't reduce.

If I nest F's in the third position, like F(x,y, F(a,b,c)), to reduce the outer F, F(a,b,c) needs to reduce to Z or S(n).

But if c is such that F(a,b,c) reduces to something that allows reduction.

Let's see if there's a cycle or infinite loop.

Suppose I have a term T = F(x,y, S(F(x,y,Z)))

No, let's compute.

I recall that in some 1st order TRS, termination requires care with the arguments.

This looks like the definition of pred or something, but let's try to find if it's strongly normalizing.

Suppose a term with many nested F in third arg.

Each reduction replaces F( , , S(n)) with G(y, F( , ,n)), so the F remains one, but n is the previous n.

If n is S(m), it continues.

But if I have F in the n position, it can be reduced separately.

Importantly, can I have a reduction sequence that goes on forever without terminating?

For example, suppose the third argument is always S something that reduces back.

Let's try to construct an infinite reduction.

Suppose I have F(a,b, S(F(a,b, S(Z)))) or something, but that will reduce finite.

It seems finite because the S's are peeled off, and each peel reduces the "S-depth".

But if the S is not there , but created by reduction.

Can reduction create S's? No, the rules produce x or G(y, F), no S produced.

The only S are in the initial term.

So, the structure is fixed, reductions don't introduce new S or Z except the given ones.

Z and S are constants, so if 3rd arg has S, it's there.

I think the system is terminating because we can use a lexicographic order or something.

For example, consider the height or the number of S in the third arg tree, and number of F's.

It's known that such recursive definitions on naturals are terminating if the recursion is 1.

Here the recursion is on n, with F(x,y,n) calling F(x,y,n) with smaller.

Yes, standard.

So, I believe strong normalization can be established from the rules alone, as the rules define a terminating recursion on the third argument assuming it's a numeral, and since no other assumptions needed if we consider all terms, because if not numeral, no reduction.

But for terms where third arg is not numeral, no infinite because no reduction at all.

For those that are, the peeling of S is finite.

Even with nested F in third arg, as I said earlier, reducing inner F turns it into G or var, which stops the outer from reducing, but the reductions inside are by induction on size.

So, by induction on term size, it normalizes.

But term size may increase in one step, as I calculated earlier, right side larger.

In my calculation, size increases, so induction on size doesn't work directly because it can go up.

That's a problem.

Let's recalculate size.

Assume size is number of symbols or depth or whatever.

Suppose atomic size: size(Z)=1, size(S(t))=1+size(t), size(F(x,y,z))=1+sx+sy+sz, size(G(x,y))=1 +sx+sy, size(var)=1.

For left: F(x,y,S(n)), size = 1 + size(x) + size(y) + size(S(n)) = 1 + sx + sy + 1 + sn = 2 + sx + sy + sn

Right: G(y, F (x,y,n) ), size = 1 + size(y) + size(F(x,y,n)) = 1 + sy + [1 + sx + sy + sn] = 2 + sx + 2 sy + sn

Yes, if sy >=1, size right > left by sy.

So size increases, so can't use size for induction.

Need a different measure that decreases.

For termination proof, we need a well-founded ordering on terms that decreases under rewrite.

For example, perhaps the multiset of the "third arguments" for each F, ordered by some order on terms.

Like, the third arg for the 2nd rule is n < S(n) in some order.

Since S is constructor, we can order terms by their "nat value" if third arg is nat, but since arbitrary terms, we need a general order.

One standard is the recursive path ordering (RPO), which can prove termination for such.

For 1st order TRS, there are methods to prove it.

But the question is whether it can be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions.

I think "structural axioms" mean like associativity, commutativity, or congruence rules for substitution etc.

"object-level assumptions" mean like assuming that the third arg is a natural number, and naturals are well founded.

So, probably, from the rewrite rules alone, without assuming anything about the domain of the third arg being well-founded, can we prove SN.

In pure syntax, with arbitrary terms, is this TRS strongly normalizing?

From my earlier calculation, since size can increase, but #F can increase if y contains F's.

If y contains F's, then #F increases, so if I can keep applying rules that duplicate y, and if y has F's that allow reduction, it might loop or infinite.

Let's try to find a concrete example where there is an infinite reduction sequence.

Let me try to set y to be F(x, y, Z) wait, but variables are x,y,n, but y is variable, but to have concrete term, we need to instantiate with ground terms or closed terms.

Let's assume we can use the variables as part of term, but to have a closed term, we need to have F and G,S,Z only.

So, let's make a term using F,G,S,Z.

But to have y be an F, I need to have the second arg be F(some, some, some).

So, let's construct a term where 2nd arg is F(something).

For example, let me take a simple term: F(Z, F(Z, Z, Z), S(Z))

Let's see what happens.

Let me denote the term: F( Z , F(Z, Z, Z) , S(Z) )

So, x=Z, y = F(Z,Z,Z), n=Z

The term has outer F(Z, y=F(Z,Z,Z), S(Z) )

Since third arg is S(Z), so matches second rule: reduces to G( y , F(Z, y, Z) ) where y=F(Z,Z,Z)

So new term: G ( F(Z,Z,Z) , F(Z, F(Z,Z,Z), Z)  )

Now, this has no F at top, the G doesn't reduce, but inside there is F(Z,Z,Z) which is the y, and another F(Z, F(Z,Z,Z), Z)

The inner F(Z, F(Z,Z,Z) , Z) : its third arg is Z, so matches first rule: F(..,Z) -> x which is Z, so reduces to Z.

The other F(Z,Z,Z): third arg Z, reduces to Z.

So all reduce to G( F(Z,Z,Z) which reduces 2 times to Z , and Z )

Finite.

No infinite.

Let's try to have the duplication cause more S's.

Suppose I make the y contain an S in a way that when duplicated, the new F's have S.

Let's try: let me make y = F(Z, Z, S(Z))

So y = F(Z,Z,S(Z)) which itself can reduce.

Let me take outer: F(Z, y=F(Z,Z,S(Z)), S(Z) )

So outer third S(Z), so reduces to G(y, F(Z,y,Z) )

y = F(Z,Z,S(Z)), which has its own S.