The question is: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivabl...The system is given as:

(VAR x y n)

(RULES

  F(x, y, Z) -> x

  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))

)

It's a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding, no imported axioms beyond these rules.

 The question is whether strong normalization can be established from this rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what's derivable from the given rules.

Strong normalization means every term has a finite reduction sequence to normal form, no infinite loops.

In this system, the only rewrite rules are those two for F.

 - When F is applied with third arg Z, reduces to x (first arg)

  - When third arg is S(n), reduces to G(F(x,y,n)), which recurses on n.

Since terms are finite, if the third argument is built using S and Z, the reduction will peel it off in finite steps, adding G's along the way.

Reductions can happen in subterms: if the third arg has F's inside, they can be reduced first.

No rules for G, so G doesn't reduce.

No way to create new F's that loop, because the rules don't introduce new F's; the second rule introduces G and F with smaller n.

Assuming n is a term, and S is constructor, but in pure TRS, S and Z are symbols.

Is there a potential infinite reduction?

Suppose I have a term like F(a,b, S(t)) where t reduces to something that allows looping, but since no rules for other symbols, and F only reduces when third is exactly Z or S(var), but if t is variable, no.

Suppose I introduce F in a way that creates a cycle.

But the rules don't allow F on lhs except in the recursive call, but with smaller arg.

The recursive call is F(x,y,n with n smaller than S(n)), so if we measure by size of third arg, it decreases.

In pure TRS, size decreases or something.

I recall that in TRS, this kind of recursion on structure is normalizing if no loops.

I think it is strongly normalizing, and can be established from the rules alone (by induction on term size or number of S/Z).

But the question mentions "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions"

Structural axioms probably mean like congruence, or that S is injective, Z not S, etc.

In a pure TRS, without assuming that S and Z are distinct constructors, perhaps if S = Z or something, but no.

If we don't assume that the only way S appears is as S, but in pure TRS, if there are no other rules, but perhaps if I have a term where S reduces, but S has no rule.

I think the answer is no, because without structural axioms, we can't prove it, or something.

Let's search my knowledge.

This seems specific, perhaps from the Coq or Lean or some proof assistant context, or from a paper on rewriting.

Perhaps related to normalization in rewriting with variables.

Look at the (VAR x y n), so x,y are bound or free? No variable binding, so probably free vars.

I think the issue is that y is not used, so if y has F with third arg that could be infinite, but again circular.

Suppose I take a term F(x, F(a,b,S(c)), Z), terminates.

I can't find an infinite sequence because each reduction removes 1 S or 1 Z from some third arg position, and there are finitely many in the term, and when copying, the n has fewer.

When applying the rule F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(F(x,y,n)), the new F has third arg n, which has one less S than the original S (original third was S(n), so one S + the S/Z in n), new has S/Z in n, so decreases by 1, and adds G which has no S/Z.

If I reduce inside y or x, they may have their own S/Z.

So the total number of S and Z symbols in the entire term is finite, and each reduction step decreases the number of S and Z by at least 1 (when consuming the S or Z in the matched pattern), or when reducing inner F not at the matched, it decreases elsewhere.

When reducing an inner F that is not the one being reduced at outer, it decreases the count in that inner's third.

When reducing the outer F with S, it consumes the S, decreases total S/Z by 1, and the new F has the n's count.

When reducing outer with Z, consumes Z, decreases by 1, replaces with x, which may have S/Z but those were already in the original term (in x), but the original had Z + S/Z in y, so when discarding y, if y has S/Z, they are removed without decreasing? No: the total S/Z count in whole term: when reducing F(x,y,Z) -> x , the term becomes x , so the S/Z that were in y are discarded (removed from term), the Z is removed, x stays.

So total S/Z decreases by the ones in y +1.

If y has no S/Z, decreases by 1.

So always decreases.

For other reductions inside, if I reduce a sub F inside y, that reduction will decrease the S/Z count by 1 (consuming one in that sub third), so total decreases.