The user wants me to reconsider my previous answer about the rewrite system:

(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, y, y, y, F(x, y, n))
)

The instruction was: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?"

My previous answer used LPO with a precedence F > G.

Now I need to answer four questions briefly and directly:

1. What primary method did your previous answer use?
2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
3. If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?
4. Separately from boundary compliance, do you still think the system is strongly normalizing?

Let me think carefully.

The rewrite system has constructors Z, S, F, G. But the rules don't specify anything about Z and S beyond appearing in the rules. To prove SN using LPO, I assumed a precedence F > G. Is that fixed by the rules? The rules themselves don't specify an ordering on function symbols. So choosing F > G is an external assumption. However, termination proving using a reduction ordering always involves finding a suitable ordering. The question is whether such an ordering is "derivable from the given rules" or an "object-level assumption".

Wait, the question is subtle. "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules"

What is derivable from the given rules? The rules are just rewrite rules. We can derive equations, but not an ordering on symbols. The LPO method requires a precedence (a well-founded order on function symbols). That precedence is not determined by the rewrite rules. So yes, it relies on an assumption not fixed by the rules.

But is the question asking whether SN can be established *using* only what's in the rules? Or is it asking whether SN holds provably without extra axioms? The phrasing: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?"

This is asking about the method of establishing SN. If we use LPO, we need to choose a precedence. Is that choice "derivable from the given rules"? Not really. The rules don't say F > G. We just chose it. However, one could argue that the existence of such a precedence is a meta-level proof technique, not an object-level assumption. But the question explicitly mentions "ordering choice" as something that might place the method outside the boundary.

Let's parse the four questions:

1. Primary method: Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) / a simplification ordering based on a precedence F > G.

2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
Yes. LPO requires selecting a precedence (F > G) and assuming that Z and S are constructors with no specific ordering between them needed. Actually for rule 2, we don't need to compare Z and S. But we do need the precedence F > G. The rules themselves do not dictate that F > G. So the ordering choice is external.

3. If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?
The boundary is "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". Choosing a precedence F > G is indeed an assumption not derivable from the given rules. So yes, that places the method outside the stated boundary.

Wait, is choosing a precedence an "object-level assumption"? In term rewriting, a precedence is part of the meta-theory of the ordering. But the question seems to interpret it broadly: "ordering choice ... not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves". So the answer should be yes.

But let me think deeper. Could one argue that the LPO with F > G is just a proof technique and doesn't import axioms? The prompt says "proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves". This explicitly includes ordering choices. So LPO with a chosen precedence does rely on an ordering choice not fixed by the rules. Thus it is outside the boundary.

However, there might be another way to see it: The system is basically primitive recursion. The second rule decreases n in the recursive call (from S(n) to n). But to formalize this, we need induction on the structure of n. Is structural induction on n derivable from the rules? The rules don't state that all terms of sort "nat" are built from Z and S. That's a structural axiom (e.g., "n is either Z or S(m)"). Without such an assumption, there could be other normal forms or infinite structures. Wait, the system is a pure TRS with variables. Variables range over all terms. There is no type or sort. The rewrite rules apply to any terms. The only way to prove SN is to show there is no infinite rewrite sequence.

But can there be infinite rewrite sequences due to non-well-founded terms? In standard TRS, terms are finite trees. There is no assumption of well-foundedness of data; terms are just finite first-order terms. Z and S are constants/functions. There is no "infinite" natural number term because terms are finite. So recursion on n is structural recursion on a finite term. However, to prove SN, we still need some ordering. We can map each term to a natural number: e.g., |F(x,y,n)| = something depending on |n|. But |n| as a number of S's is a semantic interpretation, not given by the rules.

Wait, is there any way to prove SN of this system using only the rules themselves, without any external ordering or interpretation? Maybe by using the concept of recursive path ordering, but that's still an external ordering. What about just saying "the only redexes are F(...). The third argument strictly decreases in the recursive call because S(n) rewrites to n, and no rule increases the number of S's, and base case stops"? But that's not rigorous without a measure.

Actually, there is a subtlety: strong normalization of a TRS means there is no infinite sequence of rewrite steps t0 -> t1 -> t2 -> ... where each ti is a term generated by the signature. Since terms are finite, the number of S symbols in the third argument of F is a natural number that decreases with each recursive call. But we must also account for the y's and G. Let's examine the rewrite relation more carefully.

Rule 2: F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, y, y, y, F(x, y, n))

Note that the recursive call F(x,y,n) is inside a G context. So if F(x,y,n) rewrites further, we get G(y,y,y,y, ... ). But could the outer G context create new redexes? G doesn't appear in the left-hand side of any rule, so G is a free symbol (constructor-like). So the only redexes are the F subterms.

Thus any rewrite sequence starting from a term t consists of rewriting some F-redexes. Since G doesn't rewrite, the context doesn't create new redexes except those already present.

Now, can we define a measure on terms that decreases? The most natural measure is the maximum "depth" of F-calls, weighted by the third argument. More precisely, define a function φ from terms to ordinals (or naturals):
- φ(Z) = 0? Wait, Z is a constant.
- φ(S(t)) = φ(t) + 1? But we cannot assume induction or recursion on terms is given by the rules. However, as a meta-level definition, we can define the height of the third argument: the number of nested S's.

Let's define |n| as the number of S symbols along the leftmost spine? Actually n is arbitrary. But S is a unary function symbol. In a finite term, the "S-depth" or number of S's is finite. But wait, S could appear anywhere. For rule 2, the third argument is S(n). If we define a measure on terms: for any term t, let #S(t) be the total number of S symbols in t. Then #S(S(n)) = #S(n) + 1. In the reduct G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,n)), the new F has third argument n. The total number of S symbols in the whole term might not decrease because of the four y's (which could contain many S's). But note: x, y, n are variables. In a ground instance, y could be huge. So if we look at the rewrite step on a ground instance: F(a, b, S(c)) -> G(b,b,b,b,F(a,b,c)). The term b is duplicated. If b contains many S's, the total number of S's in the term could increase drastically. So a simple global count doesn't work.

But if we look at the specific redex: the third argument of F decreases in the recursive call from S(n) to n. If we define a measure on F-subterms: μ(F(x,y,n)) = (|n|, 0) lexicographically, where |n| is the size (or S-depth) of n. But again, n is a variable, so in a substitution instance, n could be any term. However, the rewrite step is applied to the term F(x,y,S(n)) with the pattern S(n). The variable n matches a subterm. In the recursive call, we have F(x,y,n). The third argument of the recursive call is the immediate subterm of the original third argument. So the "height" of the third argument decreases by one S-layer.

In the recursive path ordering or LPO, we compare the left-hand side F(x,y,S(n)) with the right-hand side. The right-hand side contains F(x,y,n). Since F = F, we compare the arguments lexicographically: (x,y,S(n)) > (x,y,n) because S(n) > n in the ordering (since S(n) contains n as a proper subterm). This is exactly the subterm property of LPO. But to get F(x,y,S(n)) > G(...), we need F > G. So LPO works.

But the user's question is about whether the method relies on assumptions beyond the rules. The LPO precedence is external. So the answer to 2 is yes.

Now, does that place the method outside the stated boundary? The boundary: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". Choosing F > G is an assumption not derivable from the given rules. So yes, it places the method outside.

But is there any method that stays inside? Maybe we can argue directly: Consider any term. It is strongly normalizing because... Actually, can we prove SN using only the rules? In pure equational logic or rewrite theory, proving SN typically requires some external well-founded ordering. The question seems to be a philosophical/meta-theoretical trick: Is SN provable from the rules alone? In general, SN is a property of the rewrite system; to prove it, we use meta-theoretic tools. The prompt asks whether it can be established "from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules".

This is ambiguous. Does "from the presented rewrite system alone" mean using only the rules as hypotheses in a formal system? Or does it mean "looking only at the rules, can we conclude SN"? If we are allowed to use standard meta-theorems of term rewriting (like "if there is an LPO then SN"), then the external precedence might be considered part of the proof search but not an assumption about the object system. However, the question's phrasing "ordering choice ... not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves" suggests that any such choice counts as outside the boundary.

Let me reconsider the original system. It looks like a definition of a primitive recursive function. The first rule says F(x,y,Z) -> x. The second says F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,n)). This is similar to a recursor. Strong normalization of this system is trivial in the sense that every rewrite step eliminates one F-redex with third argument S(n) and replaces it with a G and an F-redex with third argument n. Since n is structurally smaller than S(n), and there are no other rules, any rewrite sequence must terminate after a number of steps equal to the number of S's in the initial term's F-positions.

But wait: are there interactions with other redexes? The four y's are duplicated. If y contains an F-redex, rewriting it could create more F-redexes? But the question is about strong normalization of the whole system. If y contains an F-redex, then the term might not be strongly normalizing if rewriting inside y can create infinite expansions? But there are no rules that expand terms. The only rules are the two F-rules. They always reduce the size of the F-redex in a specific way. However, F occurs inside the term. Could there be an infinite rewrite sequence that doesn't touch the top-level F but rewrites some inner F forever? If there is an inner F, it also decreases its own third argument. But the duplication of y could copy a term containing F-redexes. However, those F-redexes are independent. The question is whether there exists any infinite sequence.

Actually, standard TRS termination proofs via LPO already handle all that. But the question is specifically about whether the proof method relies on external choices.

Let me think about the four questions again.

1. What primary method did your previous answer use?
Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) with precedence F > G.

2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
Yes. It requires choosing a precedence (F > G) and applying the LPO framework, which is external to the rewrite rules.

3. If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?
Yes. The boundary excludes assumptions/choices not fixed by the rules.

4. Separately from boundary compliance, do you still think the system is strongly normalizing?
Yes. The system is SN.

But wait: Is the answer to 2 definitely yes? Could one argue that the ordering choice is part of the proof but not an assumption about the system? The question explicitly lists "ordering choice" as something that might be outside. The phrase "not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves" applies. Since the rules don't fix F > G, it is not fixed.

Alternatively, one might answer: The method used a simplification ordering (LPO) which is a meta-level proof technique. The precedence F > G is indeed chosen externally. However, it's not an object-level assumption; it's a proof-level choice. But the prompt explicitly says "proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption". So yes.

But there is another subtlety: Is there a method that doesn't rely on external choices? For example, one could argue that the system is orthogonal (or linear?) and decreasing because each rewrite step removes one S. But to make that rigorous, one typically defines a weight function. Defining a weight function is also an interpretation/assumption not fixed by the rules.

Actually, in the pure theory of term rewriting, can one prove SN from just the rules without any external ordering? If we restrict ourselves to derivations from the rules alone (e.g., using deduction in some formal system where the only axioms are the rewrite rules), can we prove SN? SN is usually expressed as ∀t ∃!n (t →* n and n is normal). This is not a first-order consequence of the rewrite rules. It's a statement about the rewrite relation. To prove it, we need induction on terms or some equivalent.

The question seems to be testing whether I recognize that standard termination proofs (like LPO) import external machinery (precedence, ordering) and thus do not satisfy the strict boundary of "only what is derivable from the given rules". So the answer to 1,2,3 should be LPO, yes, yes.

Now for 4: Separately, do I still think the system is SN? Yes. Because intuitively, each call to F on S(n) reduces to a call on n, and there are no other rules that could cause non-termination. The system is essentially a recursor that terminates after a finite number of steps determined by the length of the S-chain in the third argument. Even though I used LPO which imports an external precedence, the system itself is terminating.

Wait, is there any hidden way this system is not SN? Could there be an infinite rewrite sequence due to the duplication of y? Suppose y is a term that contains F. When we rewrite F(x,y,S(n)), we get G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,n)). Now there are four copies of y. If y had an F-redex, we could rewrite it. But rewriting y doesn't increase the number of F's with larger third arguments. However, could rewriting inside y create a term that interacts with the outer context to create a larger redex? No, because the left-hand sides of rules are just F-patterns. A larger term containing an F-redex is just an F-redex somewhere. The only way to get infinite rewriting is to have an infinite number of F-redexes or an infinite chain. But each F-redex either is the base case (terminates) or spawns one smaller F-redex plus some G stuff. The G stuff doesn't rewrite. So the total "measure" of all F-redexes, say the sum of the depths of their third arguments, decreases lexicographically. This is a standard argument. So SN holds.

But is there a possibility of non-termination if the third argument is not built from Z and S? For instance, what if n is a variable? Then F(x,y,S(n)) rewrites to G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,n)). The new F has third argument n. If n is a variable, it can be instantiated later? No, rewriting works on ground terms or arbitrary terms via matching. In a rewrite step, variables in the left-hand side are matched to subterms of the redex. In the resulting term, there are no "uninstantiated variables" that later become something else; variables are just placeholders for any term. To have an infinite rewrite sequence, we need an infinite chain of terms t0 -> t1 -> t2 -> ... . Each step instantiates variables in the rule to subterms of the current term. So if at some point we have F(a,b,n) where n is a variable, that F is a normal form if n is a variable (since the left-hand sides require Z or S(n)). Wait, F(x,y,n) where n is a variable does not match either left-hand side because the first rule requires Z, the second requires S(n'). So F(x,y,n) with n a variable is a normal form with respect to F-rules. Thus, if in a rewrite sequence we reach an F with a variable third argument, that F cannot be rewritten further. So the only way to continue rewriting is if there are other F-redexes elsewhere.

Could we have a term like F(x, F(a,b,S(c)), S(n))? Let's trace: The outer F rewrites using rule 2: F(x, F(a,b,S(c)), S(n)) -> G(F(a,b,S(c)), ..., F(x, F(a,b,S(c)), n)). Now the inner F(a,b,S(c)) appears in the y-positions. It could be rewritten: F(a,b,S(c)) -> G(b,b,b,b,F(a,b,c)). So we can rewrite inside one of the y copies. That reduces the inner F's third argument. So we can keep rewriting inner F's. But each such rewrite reduces the total measure. Since each F-redex has a finite third argument (in terms of S-depth), and each step reduces the S-depth of some F-redex, and no step increases the S-depth of any F-redex, the process must terminate.

Is there any way to increase the S-depth? No. The only rules produce G and smaller F. G doesn't rewrite. So SN is very plausible.

But could there be a cyclic dependency? For instance, if y contains the original F? Let's try: t = F(x, y, S(n)) where y = F(x, y', S(n')). No, y is a subterm. After rewriting, we get four copies of y. If y contains an F-redex, rewriting it might produce more copies, etc. But each time we rewrite an F-redex, the third argument of that specific F decreases in S-depth. Even though copying could increase the number of F-redexes, each new F-redex is a copy of an existing one with the same third argument. Wait! This is crucial.

Consider a term t = F(x, y, S(n)) where y itself contains an F-redex, say y = F(a, b, S(k)). Then rewriting the outer F yields G(y, y, y, y, F(x,y,n)). Now we have four copies of y. Each copy contains the redex F(a,b,S(k)). If we rewrite one of them, we get G(b,b,b,b,F(a,b,k)) inside that copy. But note: we could instead rewrite the inner redexes first. However, can we get an infinite sequence? The number of F-redexes could grow because the outer F duplicates y. If y contains an F-redex, then after one outer step, we have 4 copies of that redex. If we then rewrite the outermost of those? Wait, there is no outermost; they are all inside G arguments. We could rewrite each of them. But each such rewrite replaces an F(a,b,S(k)) with a G(...,F(a,b,k)). So the number of F-redexes doesn't increase indefinitely; each inner rewrite replaces one F with one smaller F (plus G's). The outer rewrite replaced one F with one smaller F (plus G's and four y's). So the number of F-redexes is not increasing; it's staying the same or decreasing? Let's see: outer F had one redex. After rewriting, we have one smaller F (the recursive call) plus the four y's. If y contained m redexes, we now have 4m redexes from the y's. So the number of redexes can increase multiplicatively! For example, if y has 1 redex, after outer rewrite we have 4 redexes (in the y positions) plus the recursive F. Then each of those 4 could be rewritten, each producing 4 more if their y's have redexes, etc. This could lead to an exponential blow-up in the number of redexes, but does it lead to non-termination?

We need to see if there is an infinite rewrite sequence. Each rewrite step picks a redex and reduces it. The measure of a term could be a multiset of the S-depths of all F-redexes. When we rewrite an F with third argument S(n), we remove one redex with depth d+1 and add one redex with depth d (the recursive call) plus any redexes inside the y's (which are just copied). The redexes inside the y's have the same depths as before. So the multiset measure changes by removing one d+1 and adding one d. In multiset ordering, {d+1, ...} > {d, ...}. So the multiset measure decreases. Since the multiset ordering over natural numbers is well-founded, there cannot be an infinite sequence.

But again, this uses a multiset ordering, which is an external proof technique.

Could one derive this from the rules alone? No.

So to answer the four questions:

1. Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) / simplification ordering with precedence F > G.
2. Yes. It relies on an externally chosen precedence (F > G) and the LPO framework.
3. Yes. That choice is not fixed by the rewrite rules, so it lies outside the stated boundary.
4. Yes. The system is strongly normalizing.

Wait, but let me reconsider question 3. The boundary says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". Is a precedence an "object-level assumption"? It's a meta-level ordering on function symbols. However, the prompt explicitly includes "ordering choice" in the list of things that might be outside. So answer yes.

But there is a possible counterargument: The method doesn't assume anything about the object system; it constructs a ranking to prove a meta-property. The "stated boundary" might refer to adding axioms like "forall n, n = Z or exists m, n = S(m)" or induction axioms for the naturals. Since Z and S are just function symbols, proving SN by induction on term structure might require assuming the term algebra is generated by the signature, which is standard. But the LPO precedence is not an object-level assumption; it's part of the proof.

However, the user's question is framed as a reconsideration. They are likely expecting me to say: "Actually, the LPO proof does rely on an ordering choice (F > G) that is not dictated by the rules themselves, so it technically falls outside the strict boundary. But the system is indeed SN nonetheless."

Let me think if there is any way to prove SN without any external choice. For this specific system, perhaps we can use the subterm property directly? The system is "size-decreasing" in some sense. But to formalize "size", we need a definition. The rules themselves don't define a size. So any proof will need external machinery.

Actually, in rewriting theory, there is a concept of "reduction ordering" that is defined on terms. The existence of a reduction ordering containing the rules proves SN. But to establish that such an ordering exists, one must construct it. The construction is external.

The question might be interpreted as: "Can SN be established by looking only at the rules, without assuming anything else (like data type axioms)?" The answer is: Strictly speaking, no, because any termination proof imports an ordering or measure. However, the system is so simple that one might argue it's obviously SN by inspection: each F-call unravels one S. But "inspection" is not a formal proof.

Given the instruction "Give your raw assessment" originally, and now "reconsider", I think the expected nuance is: The LPO method imports a precedence choice (F > G) and thus goes beyond the rules themselves. So the answer to the boundary question is "No, SN cannot be established from the rules alone under that strict boundary; any proof requires additional ordering machinery." But wait, question 4 asks separately if I still think the system is SN. So I should answer yes to 4.

But let me read the original question again: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?"

The phrase "established from the presented rewrite system alone" could mean "is SN a theorem that follows from the rewrite rules in some minimal proof system?" In rewriting theory, SN is a property of the relation ->_R. To prove it, we might use the rewrite rules plus general logical principles (like induction on terms). Are general logical principles allowed? The prompt says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". It doesn't forbid general logical principles or proof techniques. But it forbids structural axioms (like "every natural number is Z or S of something") and object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable.

Wait, "structural axioms" likely refers to axioms about the structure of data, like Peano axioms or induction principles for the natural numbers. Since Z and S appear, one might be tempted to use the induction principle for naturals. The prompt says not to import those. My LPO proof didn't use induction on naturals; it used a syntactic ordering. But it did use a precedence.

Is a precedence an "object-level assumption"? It's a relation on function symbols. It's not an assumption about the objects being rewritten; it's part of the meta-theory. The prompt's question 2 explicitly asks: "Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?" This suggests that the user considers an ordering choice as something that would place the method outside.

Thus, the answer should be:

1. LPO (Lexicographic Path Ordering) with precedence F > G.
2. Yes.
3. Yes.
4. Yes.

But I should be brief and direct.

Let me double-check: could one argue that LPO does not rely on an assumption beyond the rules because the precedence is merely a tool, not an assumption about the system? The prompt explicitly asks whether it relies on an ordering choice not fixed by the rules. The answer is yes. And then if yes, does that place it outside? The answer is yes.

One more thought: Is there any hidden non-termination? The system is not orthogonal? Actually, the left-hand sides are not overlapping: F(x,y,Z) and F(x,y,S(n)) unify only if Z = S(n), which is impossible if Z and S are distinct symbols. So it's confluent? Not necessarily, but termination is independent. There's no critical pair.

The second rule is linear in x and n, but y appears four times on the right. This is a duplicating rule. Duplicating rules can cause non-termination when combined with others (e.g., Ackermann). But here the duplicating factor is bounded (4 copies) and the rule also reduces the recursion variable. So it's terminating.

Consider a term F(x, y, S^k(Z)). It rewrites to G(y,y,y,y, F(x,y,S^{k-1}(Z))) -> ... -> G(y,y,y,y, G(y,y,y,y, ... F(x,y,Z)...)). After k steps, we reach a term with k nested G's and 4^k copies of y? Wait, let's trace carefully.

F(x,y,S(Z)) -> G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,Z)) -> G(y,y,y,y,x). That's it. Because F(x,y,Z) -> x. So only one recursive call. Actually, the second rule for n=Z gives F(x,y,S(Z)) -> G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,Z)). Then F(x,y,Z) -> x. So final term is G(y,y,y,y,x). For n=S(S(Z)): F(x,y,S(S(Z))) -> G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,S(Z))) -> G(y,y,y,y,G(y,y,y,y,F(x,y,Z))) -> G(y,y,y,y,G(y,y,y,y,x)). So indeed, the nesting depth of G equals the number of S's. The y's are duplicated at each level, but there are no further rewrites inside because y is just a variable (or whatever it is). If y contains redexes, they get duplicated but each is independent.

Thus SN is clear.

So final answers:

1. Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) / a simplification ordering based on a precedence F > G.
2. Yes — it requires selecting a precedence (F > G) and applying the LPO framework, neither of which is dictated by the two rules.
3. Yes — that external ordering choice falls outside the boundary of “only what is derivable from the given rules.”
4. Yes — the system is still strongly normalizing; every F-redex strictly decreases the depth of S in its third argument, and no rule can recreate a larger F-redex.

I should be very brief and direct as requested.

Wait, the user asked "Now answer briefly and directly: 1. ... 2. ... 3. ... 4. ..." So I should format as a numbered list.

Let me check if there is any other method I used previously. I said "compatible with the Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) using the single precedence F > G". That's the method.

For question 2: "Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?" The answer is yes. The precedence F > G is not fixed by the rules. Also, LPO is a proof structure.

For question 3: "If yes, does that place the method outside the stated boundary?" The boundary: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". An ordering choice is not derivable from the given rules. So yes, it places the method outside.

But wait: is it an "object-level assumption"? Object-level usually means assumptions about the objects of the theory (the terms). A precedence is a meta-level assumption. However, the prompt explicitly mentions "ordering choice" as something to consider. So I should answer yes.

For question 4: "Separately from boundary compliance, do you still think the system is strongly normalizing?" Yes.

One nuance: Could one argue that the LPO precedence is derivable from the rules? No, because the rules don't mention any ordering. But could one say "the rules suggest F is 'more active' than G because F appears on the left and G only on the right"? That's an informal reading, not a formal derivation.

Alternatively, one could prove SN using a polynomial interpretation: assign 0 to Z, +1 to S, and a weight to F and G. That also requires choosing coefficients.

Is there any proof that doesn't require choosing something? In general, proving SN for a non-trivial TRS always requires some external machinery. The only "raw assessment" from the rules alone is that SN is not a first-order consequence of the rewrite rules considered as equations or implications. So under a very strict reading, the answer to the original question is "No, SN cannot be established from the rules alone without some external inductive or ordering machinery." But the user asks me to answer the four questions, not to re-answer the original question.

Let me ensure my answers are consistent.

1. Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) with precedence F > G.
2. Yes.
3. Yes.
4. Yes.

I think that's correct.

But wait: The original answer also mentioned comparing arguments lexicographically and using the subterm property. The subterm property is part of LPO. Does LPO rely on structural axioms? Not really, it's a syntactic ordering.

I should also consider if there is a simpler method that stays within the boundary: Since the only recursive rule has the recursive call F(x,y,n) which is a proper subterm of F(x,y,S(n)), and G does not appear on the left-hand side, perhaps we can use the subterm property directly: The right-hand side is not necessarily a subterm of the left-hand side because of the G and the duplicated y's. However, the recursive call is a subterm. But the entire right-hand side is not. So direct subterm induction doesn't work without an ordering that handles G.

Could we use the "recursive path ordering" which is a specific instance? Same issue.

I think the user is testing whether I recognize that my previous proof used external machinery (the precedence) and thus violated the spirit of the original constraint, even though the system is indeed SN.

Thus, my final answer will be:

1. Lexicographic Path Ordering (LPO) with precedence F > G.
2. Yes.
3. Yes.
4. Yes.

I'll write it very briefly.

Wait, I want to make sure about question 3. Does it place the method outside the stated boundary? The boundary was: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". If I say "yes", I'm saying the method is outside. But is a precedence an "object-level assumption"? It's not an object-level assumption; it's a meta-level ordering choice. The prompt includes "ordering choice" in the list in Q2, and Q3 asks if that places it outside. So yes.

Alternatively, could the answer to Q3 be "It depends on interpretation, but under the prompt's strict reading, yes"? The user asked for brief and direct. So just "Yes."

Let me craft the final response.