Let me reconsider my previous answer in light of the original instruction.

The user is asking me to reconsider my earlier answer about strong normalization of this rewrite system:

(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))
)

The original instruction was: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?"

My previous answer claimed yes, and used a measure based on "number of S-symbols in the third argument" as a ranking.

Now let me answer the four questions:

1. What primary method did your previous answer use?
   - I used a weight/ranking/measure argument - counting the number of S-symbols in the third argument of F.

2. Does that method rely on any proof structure, ordering choice, interpretation, or other assumption not fixed by the rewrite rules themselves?
   - Yes. The interpretation of S as a "successor" and the idea that it represents a "number" or that applying S increases some measure is an interpretation. The rules themselves just define S as a constructor - there's nothing in the rules that says S(n) is "greater than" or "adds 1" to n in any ordering sense.
   - More fundamentally: to claim that the number of S-symbols decreases, we need to know that S(n) "has more S's" than n. This is an interpretation of the syntactic structure. But wait - actually, in pure term rewriting, we CAN observe the syntactic structure. The term S(n) has one more S symbol at the top level than n does (as a subterm). So this is actually just syntactic observation.
   - However, there's a deeper issue: the recursive rewrite F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n)). After applying this rule, we get G(F(x, y, n)). Now F(x, y, n) is a proper subterm of the left-hand side. So the term shrinks in the subterm ordering.
   
I'm investigating the termination characteristics carefully. The recursive nature of the rule suggests potential complexity in proving strong normalization. The rewriting process involves recursive calls that might create non-terminating sequences, which could challenge my initial measure-based argument. I need to carefully examine whether the measure truly guarantees termination or if there are hidden complexities in the recursive rewriting process.

The key observation is that each recursive step reduces the complexity of the argument passed to F, which implies a natural termination mechanism. By decreasing the number of S-symbols in each recursive call, we create a well-founded reduction strategy that prevents infinite rewriting.

The analysis reveals that the system exhibits strong normalization, with every potential rewrite sequence naturally coming to a halt. This conclusion stems from the systematic reduction of term complexity during recursive transformations.