We need to answer: Given a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding and no imported object-level axioms beyond the rules shown. System:

(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))
)

Question: Give raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?

Provide assessment and brief reasoning. Do not read other files.

We need to determine if this TRS is strongly normalizing (SN) based solely on the rules. Let's analyze.

We have function symbols: F (arity 3), G (arity 2), Z (arity 0, constant), S (arity 1). Variables x, y, n.

Rules:
1. F(x, y, Z) -> x
2. F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))

This is a classic recursor-like function. For any ground or non-ground term, what happens? Let's see.

Consider a term F(t1, t2, t3). If t3 is Z, it reduces to t1. If t3 is S(u), it reduces to G(t2, F(t1, t2, u)). So it's like iterating S to deconstruct the third argument.

Is there any infinite reduction sequence? The only redexes are at positions where a subterm is headed by F with third argument Z or S(n). The rule 2 replaces F(x,y,S(n)) with G(y, F(x,y,n)). This reduces the size of the third argument (in terms of S-depth). The only way to get infinite reduction is if the third argument of some F can grow or if G can generate new F's with larger third arguments.

But note: The right-hand side of rule 2 contains F(x, y, n). The variable n is a subterm of the left-hand side's third argument S(n). So the new occurrence of F has third argument n, which is structurally smaller than S(n). There are no rules for G. So G is just a constructor. Z and S are constructors (no rules). So the third argument is a term built from Z and S and maybe other stuff? Wait, variables can be instantiated with any term. But in any rewrite step, the third argument is matched against either Z or S(n). So if the third argument is a variable, can it match? The left-hand sides are F(x,y,Z) and F(x,y,S(n)). If the third argument is a variable, say n itself (a variable), then neither rule applies because the third argument must be headed by Z or S. So a term F(a,b,n) where n is a variable is a normal form (with respect to these rules). So for any F-term, reduction proceeds only if the third argument is of the form Z or S(...). Since there are no rules that change the third argument into something else (except stripping S), and G has no rules, the third argument strictly decreases in the number of S symbols along the recursive calls.

Thus, any reduction sequence starting from any term must be finite. But is strong normalization guaranteed? Strong normalization means every term has no infinite reduction sequence. Since the rewrite system is finitely branching and each reduction reduces some measure, we need to see if there's any possibility of infinite reduction due to interaction with other contexts or substitution.

Because variables can be instantiated with arbitrary terms, but the rewrite relation is on terms with variables (or ground terms?). Usually, for TRSs, SN means every term (possibly with variables) has no infinite rewrite sequence. But often SN is considered for all terms, including open terms. The system is non-erasing? Rule 1 erases y and the third argument Z? Wait rule 1: F(x,y,Z) -> x. It discards y and Z. Rule 2: F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(y, F(x,y,n)). It keeps x and y, and recurses on n. So it's not erasing in a problematic way? Actually rule 1 erases y. Could that lead to infinite reduction? For strong normalization, we need to ensure that for any term, any reduction sequence terminates. The presence of rule 1 could potentially cause issues if the right-hand side can create a redex that didn't exist before. But rule 1 returns x, which is a subterm of the left-hand side. If x itself contains F-redexes, those could reduce. But those redexes were already present in the original term. Rule 2 creates a new F-term with third argument n, which is smaller. It also introduces G. Since G has no rules, it doesn't create new redexes except those inside its arguments.

We need to consider possible cyclic behavior via substitution. For example, consider a term F(x, y, S(n)) where n is instantiated with something that contains F(x,y,S(n))? But that's a term, not a substitution applied during rewriting. In standard term rewriting, you don't do fixed-point substitution like that unless you consider a specific term where a variable occurs inside its own instantiation? But variables are just placeholders; you don't solve recursive equations. When rewriting a term, you match a rule's left-hand side to a subterm. The variables in the rule are universally quantified. The term being rewritten may have variables, but those are treated as constants (i.e., you cannot instantiate them during rewriting unless you apply a substitution as part of a rewrite step). Wait, in standard TRS, a rewrite step is: C[lσ] -> C[rσ] where l -> r is a rule and σ is a substitution. So variables in the term being rewritten can be matched; they can be instantiated by the substitution. So if the term is F(A, B, C) where C is a variable, can it be rewritten? The left-hand side is F(x, y, Z). To match, we need C = Zσ. If C is a variable, say v, we can choose σ such that v maps to Z? No, the substitution σ is applied to the left-hand side of the rule, not to the term. The term is fixed. The rewrite step matches the left-hand side (with variables) to a subterm of the term. So the subterm must be an instance of the left-hand side. That means the term's subterm must have the form F(t1, t2, Z) or F(t1, t2, S(u)). If the third argument is a variable, it's not an instance of Z or S(n) (unless we consider variables as being able to match any term, but that's not how it works: the left-hand side has a specific pattern; the variable x in the left-hand side can match any term, but the constant Z must match the constant Z). So F(a,b,v) does not match either rule because the third argument is a variable v, not Z or S(...). So no rewrite.

Therefore, the only redexes are those where the third argument is headed by Z or S. The rule 2 reduces the number of S constructors in the third argument by one. So any nested sequence of F's will terminate after a number of steps equal to the number of S's in the third argument. However, what if the third argument contains F itself? For example, consider term F(x, y, S(F(x,y,S(F(x,y,...))))). Then in the outer F, rule 2 applies, yielding G(y, F(x, y, F(x, y, S(F(...))))). Now the inner F has third argument S(F(...)). That's a redex for rule 2 again? Wait, the inner F is F(x, y, F(x, y, S(F(...))))? Let's be careful.

Suppose we have term: F(a, b, S(t)). Rule 2 gives G(b, F(a, b, t)). Now the new subterm is F(a, b, t). If t itself is a term that contains many S's, it will reduce further. But t is a subterm of the original third argument. Since the original third argument is finite, the total number of S's across all recursive calls is finite. However, note that t could be something that, when placed as the third argument of F, is headed by Z or S, allowing reduction. But the size of the third argument strictly decreases in the sense that the number of S symbols along the spine? Actually, t is an arbitrary term. If t is, say, S(S(...S(Z)...)), then each step strips one S. If t is a variable, then F(a,b,t) is stuck. If t is something like F(a,b,S(...)), then we have an inner F. But that inner F was already present in the original term as a subterm of the third argument. So any reduction of that inner F could have happened in the original term as well. But does the outer reduction create new opportunities for the inner F? The inner F was already there inside the S argument. However, it was inside the argument of S, so the outer F rule didn't apply to it because the outer F required the whole third argument to be S(n). Wait, the outer F's third argument is S(t). The left-hand side of rule 2 is F(x,y,S(n)). It matches with n mapped to t. So t can be any term, including one containing F. The right-hand side is G(y, F(x,y,t)). So the inner F(x,y,t) is created. But there was no inner F(x,y,t) before? Actually there was F(x,y,S(t)) on the left; the inner t is a subterm. The new term F(x,y,t) is not necessarily a subterm of the left-hand side? Wait, the left-hand side is F(x,y,S(n)). The subterms are x, y, S(n), n. So F(x,y,n) is not a subterm of the left-hand side (unless n = F(x,y,n), which is impossible syntactically). So rule 2 creates a new F-term that was not present before. This is crucial.

Does this creation lead to infinite sequences? The new F-term has third argument n, which is a proper subterm of S(n). So the new F-term is "smaller" in the sense that its third argument is smaller. But could n contain a term that when used as the third argument of F creates a redex that loops? Let's think.

The recursion is similar to a primitive recursive definition of a function that iterates y over the structure of the third argument. In untyped lambda calculus, such definitions can lead to non-termination if the base case doesn't cover all possibilities or if there are fixpoints. But here, the third argument is just a term; we are not substituting a lambda term that could grow. However, consider the term:

Let t = F(x, y, S(t)). Is there a finite term that satisfies this equation? In the term algebra, there is no finite term that is a subterm of itself in that way (except infinite trees). So we can't have a finite term where n contains F(x,y,S(n)) in a cyclic way? Actually, we can: consider t = F(a, b, S(F(a, b, S(F(a, b, S(...)))))) — an infinite term. But we only consider finite terms. So any finite term has finite depth.

But could there be a finite term where reducing creates a term with a larger depth of F-redexes? Let's attempt to find a counterexample to SN.

Suppose we have a term: F(x, y, S(n)) where n is some term. After one step, we get G(y, F(x, y, n)). If n is a variable, no further F-reduction. If n is Z, then F(x,y,Z) -> x, so G(y,x). If n is S(m), then F(x,y,S(m)) -> G(y, F(x,y,m)). So the number of nested F's corresponds to the number of S's in the third argument of the original term.

But what if the third argument is something like S(F(x,y,S(F(x,y,S(...)))))? Let's try to construct a term that expands.

Consider term T = F(a, b, S(F(a, b, S(c)))). Here the third argument is S(F(a, b, S(c))). Apply rule 2: T -> G(b, F(a, b, F(a, b, S(c)))). Now we have an inner redex: F(a, b, S(c)) -> G(b, F(a,b,c)). So we get G(b, F(a, b, G(b, F(a,b,c)))). This terminates.

What about T = F(a, b, S(F(a, b, n))) where n is a variable. Then T -> G(b, F(a, b, F(a, b, n))). The inner F(a,b,n) is stuck because n is a variable. So no infinite reduction.

What if we consider a term where x or y contain redexes? For instance, let x = F(u,v,S(Z)). Then F(x,y,Z) -> x -> G(v, F(u,v,Z)) -> G(v, u). That's fine.

Is there any way to create an infinite loop using rule 1 and rule 2? Rule 1 discards the third argument. If the third argument is something huge that contains F-redexes, those are discarded. So no.

The only possible source of non-termination would be if there is a term where repeated application of rule 2 creates an infinite sequence of F-terms. But each application of rule 2 reduces the depth of the third argument by removing one S. Since the term is finite, there are only finitely many S's along any branch of the third argument. However, note that the third argument of the newly created F is n, which could be bigger in some other sense? Actually, n is a proper subterm of S(n). So the multiset of S-depths of F-subterms decreases? Not exactly.

We can try to define a well-founded measure on terms that decreases with each rewrite. A standard approach: define a weight |t| that counts the total number of S symbols in certain positions. Or use a lexicographic measure: For any term t, define M(t) = sum of the sizes of the third arguments of all F-subterms in t, where the size is the number of S constructors. But rule 2 replaces one F with third argument S(n) by a new F with third argument n, and also wraps it in G. So the number of S's in the third argument of that F decreases by 1. However, the new F might be in a context where it becomes a subterm of something else. But the total number of S's in all third arguments of F-subterms might decrease? Let's see: originally we have an F-subterm with third argument S(n). After reduction, we have a new F-subterm with third argument n. The S is gone. So the total number of S constructors in third arguments of F's decreases by 1. Rule 1 removes an F entirely (third argument Z). So the total number of S's in third arguments of F's does not increase. Thus, a well-founded measure exists: the multiset of sizes (number of S's) of third arguments of F-subterms, ordered by multiset ordering. Each step reduces the total number of S's in such positions. Hence, the system is terminating.

But wait: could rule 2 increase the number of F-subterms? Yes, it creates one new F-subterm. But the new F-subterm's third argument is n, which is a subterm of S(n). The old F-subterm's third argument had at least one S (the outermost one). The new F-subterm's third argument has fewer S's than the old one (specifically, at least one fewer if we count S's in the whole term). Actually, the number of S's in n could be larger than the number in S(n)? No, S(n) has exactly one more S than n. So the third argument of the new F has strictly fewer S's than the third argument of the old F. So we can assign to each F-subterm a weight = number of S's in its third argument. The total weight over all F-subterms decreases with each rewrite because we replace an F with weight k+1 by an F with weight k (plus possibly other F's inside n, but those were already present in the original term as subterms of n). Wait: in the original term, n was a subterm of S(n). Inside n, there could be F-subterms. Those F-subterms existed in the original term as well. So the total multiset of weights of F-subterms: before the step, we had the outer F with weight k+1, plus the F's inside n with their respective weights. After the step, we have the new F with weight k, plus the same F's inside n (since n is unchanged). So the multiset changes from {k+1, ...} to {k, ...}. This is a strict decrease in the multiset ordering. Rule 1 removes an F with weight 0, decreasing the multiset. Thus, the system is terminating.

Now, is it strongly normalizing? Terminating means no infinite reduction sequences. Yes, we have a decreasing measure, so SN holds.

But the question asks: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?" This is a meta-question. It asks whether we can prove SN just from looking at these two rules, without assuming anything else (like induction on natural numbers, or axioms about constructors). In other words, is SN provable within the bare rewriting system? Or is the system obviously SN by its own structure?

The reasoning above uses structural induction and counting S's. Are those derivable from the rewrite system alone? The rewrite system itself doesn't provide induction principles. But the question likely asks: given only the TRS (no extra axioms like Peano arithmetic, no structural induction principle imported), can we establish SN? Since the system is first-order and has no variable binding, SN is a property of the rewrite relation. We can establish it by analyzing the rules. The analysis uses the structure of terms: we note that each rewrite step removes one S from the third argument of an F. This is purely syntactic and derivable from the shape of the rules. We don't need imported object-level axioms (like natural number induction) because we can define a well-founded measure on terms based solely on the signature and the rules. For instance, the measure I described (multiset of S-depths) is defined syntactically. The well-foundedness of that measure is guaranteed by the well-foundedness of the multiset ordering over natural numbers, which is a meta-mathematical fact. But is that considered "importing structural axioms"? Usually, proving SN of a TRS uses meta-level reasoning (like a reduction ordering). The question seems to be asking: can we see SN immediately from the rules without needing additional axioms or assumptions about the data types? The answer is yes, because the rewrite system directly encodes a structural recursion on the third argument.

Wait, but maybe the question is tricky. Let's parse it carefully:

"Below in this prompt you will see a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding and no imported object-level axioms beyond the rules shown there.

Give your raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?

Provide your assessment and briefly explain the reasoning."

So we need to assess if SN can be established from the presented rewrite system alone. The system is:

F(x, y, Z) -> x
F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))

Is this system strongly normalizing? Yes. Can it be established from the rules alone? Yes, because the only recursion is through the third argument which is stripped of one S each time. There are no rules for G, Z, or S. No other function symbols can create new F redexes with larger third arguments. So any rewrite sequence must terminate. The argument does not require induction on natural numbers as an object-level axiom; it just requires observing that each application of the second rule reduces the size of the third argument of the F redex, and no rule can increase it.

But is there a subtlety? Could there be an infinite reduction because of the variable n being instantiated with a term containing S, and the new F being created with that n, and then the process repeats, but n could be a term that contains the original F? Wait, n is a variable in the rule. When we apply the rule, n is instantiated with a term. That term is a subterm of the original term's third argument. Since the original term is finite, there is no infinite descent. However, the standard rewriting formalism allows n to be instantiated with any term, including terms that contain F with third arguments of arbitrary size. But that size is bounded by the original term. Since the original term is fixed, there are only finitely many S's in it. Each step removes one S from the third argument of some F redex. But does a step remove an S from the term overall? Yes: the left-hand side has S(n); the right-hand side has n. The S constructor disappears. And no new S's are introduced. So the total number of S constructors in the entire term strictly decreases with each application of rule 2. Rule 1 removes an F and a Z but doesn't create new S's. So the total number of S constructors in the term is a measure that strictly decreases with each rewrite step, and is bounded below by 0. Therefore, there cannot be an infinite rewrite sequence.

Is that true? Let's verify: Rule 2: F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n)). The number of S symbols in the left-hand side includes the S around n, plus any S's in x, y, n. The right-hand side has G(y, F(x, y, n)). The S around n is gone. No new S's are introduced. So the total number of S constructors in the term decreases by exactly 1. Rule 1: F(x, y, Z) -> x. The Z is removed (Z is not S). The total number of S constructors is unchanged (x may contain S's, but they were already present). Wait: rule 1 removes F and Z. It doesn't create or destroy any S's. But it reduces the number of F's. So if we consider the pair (number of S's, number of F's) lexicographically: rule 2 decreases the number of S's. Rule 1 leaves the number of S's unchanged but decreases the number of F's (since it removes one F and doesn't create any). Thus the lexicographic measure (number of S's, number of F's) strictly decreases with each step and is well-founded. So indeed SN can be established by a simple mapping into a well-founded order.

This reasoning uses only the rules and the signature. No imported axioms needed. The question: "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". The measure is defined on the meta-level, but that's standard for proving SN. The question likely wants to know if the system is obviously SN just by inspection.

Could there be any issue with the fact that variables x, y, n can be arbitrary terms, and perhaps x or y contain F-redexes that could interact? But the measure counts all S's and F's in the entire term, regardless of position. Rule 2 reduces total S count. Rule 1 reduces total F count without increasing S count. So any rewrite reduces the measure. This is robust.

Wait: does rule 2 always reduce the total number of S constructors? Let's check: Left side: F(x, y, S(n)). Right side: G(y, F(x, y, n)). The left side has one S at the top of the third argument. The right side has no S at that position; the subterm n is unchanged. Are there any S's introduced elsewhere? No, because G, y, x, F are not S. So the total number of S's decreases by 1. Yes.

Does rule 1 reduce the total number of F's? Left side: F(x,y,Z). Right side: x. The F is gone. No new F's are introduced. So the number of F's decreases by 1. The number of S's remains the same because x is unchanged. Z is not S.

Thus, the lexicographic pair (total S count, total F count) is a well-founded measure that strictly decreases. Therefore, the system is strongly normalizing.

So the answer: Yes, strong normalization can be established from the rewrite system alone.

Reasoning: Because each rewrite step either removes an S constructor (second rule) or removes an F symbol (first rule) without introducing new S or F symbols. This yields a decreasing measure, ensuring termination.

But wait: the first rule removes Z and F. Does it ever increase F count? No. Does it ever increase S count? No. The second rule removes one S. So the pair works.

Alternatively, one could say: The system defines a primitive recursive function on the third argument; each call strips one S. Since there are no rules generating S or F, no infinite chains are possible.

Thus the assessment: Yes, SN holds and can be established without external axioms.

However, there might be a subtlety: Is there any term where rule 1 creates a new S? No. Rule 1's rhs is x, which is a subterm of lhs. So no new symbols.

What about overlap? The two rules are non-overlapping because the third argument is Z vs S(n). So no critical pairs.

But even if they overlapped, the measure still works.

Therefore, the raw assessment: Yes, the system is strongly normalizing, provably so using a simple weight function counting S and F symbols.

Let's formulate a concise answer.

Assessment: Yes, strong normalization can be established.

Reasoning: Define a measure on terms: the pair (s(t), f(t)) where s(t) is the total number of S constructors in t and f(t) is the total number of F constructors in t, ordered lexicographically with the standard order on natural numbers. The second rule F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(y,F(x,y,n)) reduces s(t) by exactly one and does not increase f(t). The first rule F(x,y,Z) -> x reduces f(t) by one and leaves s(t) unchanged. Since this measure is well-founded and strictly decreases with every rewrite step, no infinite reduction sequence exists. This argument relies only on the syntactic form of the two given rules and does not require any imported induction principles or structural axioms about the data constructors.

That seems solid.

But the question says "Give your raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?" So answer: Yes. Provide reasoning.

Double-check: Are there any hidden issues? For example, is the system confluent? Not asked. Just SN. The system is orthogonal? Not necessary.

One might ask: what if we consider open terms (with variables)? The same measure works for any term, open or closed. Variables have s=0, f=0. Rewriting a subterm reduces the measure of the whole term.

Another angle: Could there be an infinite reduction if we allow rewriting inside substitutions? No, standard rewriting doesn't do that.

Thus the answer is definitely yes.

I will write a brief but clear assessment.

One more thought: The problem mentions "no variable binding". This is a first-order system, so no lambda. That's fine.

The phrase "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules" might refer to the fact that sometimes to prove SN of a TRS like this, one might import an induction principle on naturals (since Z and S look like Peano numerals). The question asks if we can avoid that. Yes, because the termination argument is purely syntactic and doesn't require interpreting Z/S as numbers or using Peano induction. We just count symbol occurrences.

Thus, the final answer: Yes, SN can be established; reasoning based on a decreasing lexicographic measure of S and F counts.

I will produce the final answer.