The user is asking about strong normalization of a simple term rewriting system. Let me analyze the rules:

```
F(x, y, Z) -> x
F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))
```

But there are no rules for G! So G is a "free" constructor that doesn't reduce. This means:

1. F(x, y, Z) -> x (terminates immediately)
2. F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n))

In the second rule, we get G(...) wrapping F(x, y, n). Since G has no reduction rules, this G term just sits there. The inner F(x, y, n) where n is "one less" - but we don't have a base case for F(x, y, n) unless n = Z.

Wait, but we need to be careful. The terms x, y, n are metavariables. The rules say:
- F(x, y, Z) reduces to x
- F(x, y, S(n)) reduces to G(y, F(x, y, n))

This is like a recursive function where S(n) is the "decrement". The recursion is well-founded because S(n) is "smaller" than S(S(n)) in some sense, but we need to identify the termination measure.

For strong normalization: every reduction sequence terminates.

The first rule terminates in one step.

The second rule: F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n)). The right-hand side has F(x, y, n) which is a subterm. If n is Z, then F(x, y, Z) -> x, and we get G(y, x), which is in normal form (no rules for G). If n is S(m), we get G(y, F(x, y, S(m))) -> G(y, G(y, F(x, y, m))), etc.

The key observation: G has no reduction rules, so any term of the form G(...) is in normal form. The reduction can only happen at the root of F applications, and each reduction "peels off" one S from the third argument while wrapping in G.

So the reduction sequence is finite. Each step reduces the number of S's in the third argument of F by 1 (eventually reaching Z) and accumulates G wrappers.

Strong normalization holds because:
- The argument n in the second rule is a strict subterm in the sense of "size" (one fewer S constructors when we view terms syntactically)
- But we need an order that decreases

Actually, the issue is more subtle. We need to be careful about what "subterm" means here. In standard term rewriting, n is a metavariable that can be instantiated with any term. So F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n)) - here the right-hand side F(x, y, n) has n where the left-hand side had S(n). The "size" of n as a syntactic term is one less than S(n), but this depends on having a well-founded order on terms.

Without any structural axioms or imported assumptions, can we prove strong normalization? The system itself defines the rewrite rules. Strong normalization of F can be established because:
- Every F-reduction either goes to x (terminating) or to G(y, F(x,y,n)) where n has fewer S-constructors than S(n) in the original term.
- G has no rules so it doesn't reduce.

This is essentially primitive recursion on the natural number structure (Z, S) and the lack of rules for G means we can't loop through G.

The answer: Yes, strong normalization can be established from the given rules alone. The reasoning is:
1. F(x,y,Z) -> x is a 1-step reduction to a normal form (assuming x is a variable, hence a normal form).
2. F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(y, F(x,y,n)) reduces the "size" of the third argument by removing one S constructor.
3. G has no reduction rules, so G-applications are stuck (normal forms).
4. Since we can only reduce F at the top level (no nested F's are introduced; rather, the recursive call has a syntactically smaller third argument), the reduction terminates.

Wait, let me re-examine. The inner F(x, y, n) is a redex that can fire again. So reductions can be nested through G wrappers. But each inner F-redex has a third argument with one fewer S. Eventually we reach F(x, y, Z) which terminates.

So yes, strong normalization holds, and it can be proven by induction on the syntactic structure of the third argument (or a lexicographic order).

The question asks: can strong normalization be established "from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?"

I think yes. The proof uses only:
- The given rules
- Basic facts about the rewrite system (G is a constructor with no rules, so terms with G as the outermost symbol are normal forms)

We don't need to assume anything about Z and S being natural numbers, or that there's a well-founded order on them as objects. We just need the syntactic observation that the third argument in the recursive call is "one level deeper" - specifically, n in F(x, y, S(n)) -> ... F(x, y, n) has the same "depth" in S-constructors minus one.

Actually wait - we need to be careful. The "n" in the rule F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(y, F(x, y, n)) is a metavariable, not a specific term. When we instantiate, we get F(t1, t2, S(t3)) -> G(t2, F(t1, t2, t3)). The recursive call uses t3 directly, which is one S-constructor smaller than S(t3).

But the size measure here relies on the syntactic structure. If we're allowed to use the syntactic structure of terms (which is standard in term rewriting), then yes, we can define a size function and prove SN by induction on it.

I think the answer is YES, strong normalization can be established from the rewrite system alone.