We need to answer: given a first-order term rewriting system (TRS) with no variable binding and no imported object-level axioms beyond the rules shown. System:

(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))
)

Question: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?

We need to give raw assessment and brief reasoning.

We need to understand what strong normalization means for a TRS: every term has no infinite rewrite sequence.

The system has two function symbols: F (ternary), G (unary), Z (constant), S (unary). Variables x, y, n.

Rules:

1. F(x, y, Z) -> x
2. F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))

This is a simple TRS. Does it strongly normalize? Let's think.

We can consider any term built from these symbols. The rules only apply to subterms headed by F with third argument either Z or S(n). The rewrite rule for F with third argument S(n) recurses on the third argument, peeling off S, and wraps the result in G.

So for a term F(t1, t2, u), where u is built from Z and S, the rewrite sequence will be:

If u = Z: F(t1, t2, Z) -> t1.

If u = S(u1): F(t1, t2, S(u1)) -> G(F(t1, t2, u1)). Then we need to reduce F(t1, t2, u1) further.

If u is ground, say S^k(Z), then:

F(t1,t2,S^k(Z)) -> G(F(t1,t2,S^{k-1}(Z))) -> G(G(F(t1,t2,S^{k-2}(Z)))) -> ... -> G^k(F(t1,t2,Z)) -> G^k(t1).

Thus any term of the form F(t1,t2,S^k(Z)) reduces to G^k(t1). If t1 and t2 are arbitrary terms, they are not reduced by these rules unless they themselves contain F redexes.

So the only redexes are F-terms with third argument Z or S(...). G is a constructor that just wraps its argument; there are no rules for G. Z and S are constructors with no rules.

Thus the system is basically a definition of a function F that iterates G k times on x depending on the third argument.

Is there any possibility of infinite reduction? Only if there is a term that has an infinite sequence of rewrites. Since each rewrite either eliminates an F with third argument Z (reducing size) or replaces F(x,y,S(n)) with G(F(x,y,n)), which does not increase the number of F symbols (still one F) but decreases the size of the third argument (the S-depth of the third argument decreases by 1). However, the third argument n is a variable, but in any ground instance, the third argument is some term. Wait, but rewriting applies to any term. The rule F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(F(x,y,n)) can be applied to a term where the third argument is S(t) for any t. Then the new term has F(x,y,t). So the third argument strictly decreases in size (number of S symbols) if we measure the size of the third argument. But t could be arbitrary, maybe larger than S(t)? No, t is a subterm of S(t), so it's smaller. So each F-reduction reduces the size of the third argument of that F. However, after rewriting, the new term G(F(x,y,n)) introduces a G symbol but doesn't create new redexes other than the inner F. So the only redex is the inner F. The reduction of the inner F continues until its third argument becomes Z, then it reduces to x. So any F-reduction sequence is finite, of length equal to the number of S's in the third argument plus one.

But what about the term x in the rule F(x,y,Z) -> x? x could be any term, maybe containing F redexes. But that's fine: we just need to show every term is SN. Since the rewrite relation is defined on all terms, we need to ensure no infinite rewrite sequence exists for any term. Suppose we have a term t that contains many F's. Each F will be reduced independently? Actually, rewriting is innermost or outermost? Strong normalization means no infinite sequence regardless of strategy. So we need to see if there is any possibility of infinite rewriting due to creation of new redexes or something. Let's examine.

The rules do not duplicate any variable. The right-hand side of the second rule has F(x,y,n) where n is a subterm of S(n). So the new F has third argument n, which is smaller than S(n). So the "depth" of the third argument decreases. However, x and y are unchanged. If x or y contain F-redexes, they are preserved. But they are not increased. So if we have nested F's, could there be an infinite sequence? Let's consider a term like F(F(a,b,Z), c, S(Z)). Let's compute:

F(F(a,b,Z), c, S(Z)) -> G(F(F(a,b,Z), c, Z)) -> G(F(a,b,Z)) -> G(a). So finite.

What about F(x, y, n) where n itself contains F? But the rules only match on the outermost symbol of the third argument: Z or S(n). So if n is a term like F(...), the outer F doesn't reduce unless the third argument is Z or S(something). If the third argument is an F-term, then the outer F is not a redex. But the inner F might be a redex. So reductions can happen inside the arguments.

But does the system have any rule that can increase the size of a term or create new F-redexes with larger third arguments? No. The only rule that creates an F is the right-hand side of the second rule: G(F(x,y,n)). It creates an F with third argument n, which is a subterm of the original third argument S(n). So the new F is "smaller" in the sense that its third argument is a proper subterm of the previous third argument. So the third argument of any newly created F is a proper subterm of the third argument of the parent F.

Thus we can define a measure: For any term t, consider the multiset of the sizes (or depths) of the third arguments of all F-subterms in t. When we apply a rule to an F-subterm with third argument Z, that F disappears, decreasing the multiset. When we apply a rule to an F-subterm with third argument S(u), we replace it with G(F(...,u,...)). The new F has third argument u, which is smaller than S(u). So we remove an element corresponding to S(u) and add an element corresponding to u, which is smaller. However, the context around the F might be G, but that doesn't create new F's. So the multiset measure strictly decreases in the multiset ordering induced by the usual ordering on natural numbers (size of the third argument). Since the ordering is well-founded, there are no infinite rewrite sequences.

Wait, but what about the variables x and y? In the rule F(x,y,Z) -> x, the F disappears and x is inserted. x might contain F-subterms with arbitrary third arguments. So the multiset measure could increase because x might have F's with large third arguments. But x was already present as a subterm of the left-hand side: F(x,y,Z). The left-hand side contains x as a subterm. So the F-subterms inside x are already present in the left-hand side. When we replace F(x,y,Z) with x, we remove the F itself, but the F's inside x were already counted. So the multiset of third arguments of F-subterms in the whole term: we remove the outer F (third argument Z) and we keep the F's inside x and y. But y disappears. If y contains F's, those are removed. So the multiset could decrease because we lose the F's in y. But could we gain new F's? No, x was already there. So the multiset of F-subterms' third arguments in the whole term does not increase: we lose at least the Z (the outer F) and possibly some F's in y. However, we need a measure that strictly decreases.

Let's define a weight for each term: the sum over all occurrences of F in the term of the size (number of symbols) of its third argument. Let's see how each rule affects this weight.

Rule 1: F(x,y,Z) -> x.

Left-hand side weight: weight(x) + weight(y) + 1*size(Z) + ... Wait, need to be careful. The weight of a term is defined recursively: w(t) = sum of w of immediate subterms plus something for F at root. Let's define w(t) as the sum over all F-occurrences in t of the size of their third argument. For a term that is not an F, w is sum of w of subterms. For F(a,b,c), w(F(a,b,c)) = w(a) + w(b) + w(c) + size(c). Actually size(c) is the number of symbols in c.

Let's test rule 1: LHS = F(x,y,Z). w(LHS) = w(x) + w(y) + w(Z) + size(Z). size(Z) = 1. w(Z) = 0. RHS = x. w(RHS) = w(x). So w(LHS) - w(RHS) = w(y) + 1 >= 1. So weight strictly decreases (since w(y) >= 0). Good.

Rule 2: F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(F(x,y,n)). Note that G is not F, so G doesn't add the third argument size. LHS = F(x,y,S(n)). w(LHS) = w(x) + w(y) + w(S(n)) + size(S(n)). size(S(n)) = size(n) + 1. w(S(n)) = w(n). So w(LHS) = w(x) + w(y) + w(n) + size(n) + 1.

RHS = G(F(x,y,n)). Since G is not F, w(RHS) = w(F(x,y,n)). w(F(x,y,n)) = w(x) + w(y) + w(n) + size(n). So w(RHS) = w(x) + w(y) + w(n) + size(n).

Thus w(LHS) = w(RHS) + 1. So weight strictly decreases by 1.

Therefore, the weight w is a strictly decreasing natural number measure for any rewrite step. Since the weight is a natural number and each step decreases it by at least 1, there are no infinite rewrite sequences. Thus the system is strongly normalizing.

But the question is: "can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?" So the question is asking whether from the rewrite system alone (the two rules), can we establish strong normalization? Or perhaps is it obvious? The answer should be yes, because we can define a weight function based solely on the syntax of the rules, and show it decreases.

However, we need to be careful. The phrase "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules" might hint at whether we need to assume something about the constructors (like Z and S being from natural numbers, or an induction principle). In TRS analysis, strong normalization is a property of the rewrite relation. We can prove it using a reduction ordering or a measure. The question is whether this can be done from the presented rewrite system alone. Since the system has no variables in a binding position, and the rules are simple, we can define a measure.

But maybe the question is trickier. Let's parse the exact wording:

"Below in this prompt you will see a first-order term rewriting system with no variable binding and no imported object-level axioms beyond the rules shown there.

Give your raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?

Provide your assessment and briefly explain the reasoning. Do not read any other files in the workspace or search the web.

System:

(VAR x y n)
(RULES
  F(x, y, Z) -> x
  F(x, y, S(n)) -> G(F(x, y, n))
)"

So they ask: can strong normalization be established from the presented rewrite system alone? The answer is yes. But we need to be careful: is there any subtlety? The system is not a standard TRS because Z and S are not defined with any rules. They are just constructors. The only rules are for F. The system is orthogonal? It's left-linear. It's a constructor system? The right-hand sides have G and F. F is a defined symbol, G is a constructor (since no rules for G). Z and S are constructors. So it's a constructor-based TRS.

We can assign a weight: each F with third argument t has weight |t| (the size of t). Each rewrite reduces the total weight. Since weights are natural numbers, SN holds. This uses only the rules and the term structure.

But wait: the rule F(x,y,Z) -> x discards y. If y is arbitrary, it could be huge. But we already accounted for that: the weight of y is lost, but the weight of x remains. The total weight decreases because we lose the +1 from size(Z) and the weight of y.

Actually, does the weight of y definitely disappear? Yes, because y is a subterm of the left-hand side but not of the right-hand side. However, if y contains F occurrences, their weight contributed to the total weight of the left-hand side but not the right-hand side. So the total weight strictly decreases.

Thus SN can be established by a simple polynomial interpretation or a measure.

Alternatively, we can see that the rewrite system is basically a finite set of recursive definitions that peel off one S at a time. It's structurally recursive on the third argument. So by structural induction on the third argument, one can show that any term of the form F(x,y,t) is SN. Then by induction on the structure of any term, all terms are SN. But structural induction on terms is a meta-level principle. The question is whether we can do it without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions. Structural induction is usually a meta-level reasoning tool. But the question might be interpreted as: "Can we prove SN using only the rules, without assuming e.g. that S is the successor of natural numbers or that Z is zero?" In TRS, SN is proved via reduction orderings, which are defined on terms. We can define a reduction ordering based on a weight function. That does not require object-level axioms about S and Z.

But maybe the question is about whether the system is SN "from the presented rewrite system alone" meaning that the rewrite system itself contains enough information to entail SN. In logic, if we treat the rewrite rules as equations oriented from left to right, SN is not a first-order property; it's a property of the rewrite relation. But we can prove it meta-theoretically.

The phrase "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules" suggests that we shouldn't assume that n ranges over natural numbers, or that S and Z have specific meaning. We only have the two rules. Under this restriction, can we establish SN? Yes: by observing that every rewrite step reduces the number of symbols or some well-founded measure. But is the number of symbols always decreasing? Let's check.

Rule 1: F(x,y,Z) -> x. The number of symbols in LHS: F + x + y + Z. The number in RHS: x. So size decreases (unless y and Z are empty, but they are symbols). So size strictly decreases.

Rule 2: F(x,y,S(n)) -> G(F(x,y,n)). LHS size: F + x + y + S + n. RHS size: G + F + x + y + n. So sizes: LHS = |x|+|y|+|n|+3 (F, S, plus maybe parentheses?). RHS = |x|+|y|+|n|+2 (G, F). Actually, count function symbols: F, S on LHS; G, F on RHS. So the count of function symbols changes by -1 (S removed, G added, F stays). So size decreases by 0? Let's count: LHS has symbols: F, x, y, S, n. RHS has symbols: G, F, x, y, n. So if we count total symbols (including variables and function symbols), we replace F and S with G and F? Wait, F appears on both sides. Let's count non-variable function symbols: LHS has F and S. RHS has G and F. So the number of non-variable function symbols is the same: 2. But the term size measured as total number of symbols (including variables) might be the same? Let's see: LHS: F( x, y, S(n) ) has 1 (F) + 1 (S) + size(x) + size(y) + size(n). RHS: G( F(x,y,n) ) has 1 (G) + 1 (F) + size(x) + size(y) + size(n). So total symbol count is the same. So the size does not strictly decrease for rule 2. But the weight measure we defined does strictly decrease.

Thus we can define a weight: w(F(a,b,c)) = w(a)+w(b)+w(c)+size(c). w(other) = sum of w of subterms. This is a polynomial interpretation? Actually it's a recursive weight. It's well-defined because it's structural recursion on the term. It yields a natural number. And each rule reduces it. So SN holds.

Since the question asks for a raw assessment and brief reasoning, we should say: Yes, strong normalization can be established. Reason: each rewrite step strictly decreases a well-founded measure defined on terms, namely the sum over all occurrences of F of the size of their third argument. Rule 1 removes an F and discards its third argument Z, decreasing the measure by at least 1 plus the measure of y. Rule 2 replaces an F with third argument S(n) by an F with third argument n, decreasing the measure by exactly 1. Since this measure is a natural number, infinite reductions are impossible.

But is there any need to consider that the third argument might be something else? The rules only apply if the third argument is Z or S(n). If the third argument is something else (e.g., a variable, or G(...), or another F(...)), then F is a normal form with respect to these rules. So those F's do not contribute to redexes. But they do contribute to the measure. However, if they are not reducible, they just sit there. Could a rewrite inside the third argument create a redex for the outer F? For example, if the third argument is a variable n, and later n is instantiated or reduced? Wait, in first-order TRS, rewriting is not like lambda calculus with substitution of variables; variables are just placeholders for any term. A rewrite step applies to any ground or non-ground term. If we have a term F(a,b,n) where n is a variable, there is no rule that applies because n is neither Z nor S(...). However, we could have a rewrite step inside n: if n is replaced by S(m), then the outer F becomes a redex. But the rewrite relation does not instantiate variables spontaneously; variables are part of the term syntax. In rewriting, a variable can be matched to any term. But if the term is exactly F(a,b,n) with n a variable, it's a normal form (no redex). If we consider the term F(a,b,S(m)), the rule applies. So variables are normal forms unless they are part of a substitution in a rewrite step? Actually, rewrite rules are applied via matching, not unification. So we replace a subterm that matches the left-hand side. The left-hand side of rule 2 is F(x,y,S(n)). A subterm matches this if its third argument has outermost symbol S. If the third argument is a variable, it doesn't match S(n). So no rewrite.

Thus the measure is well-defined and decreases.

However, one might wonder: does the presence of variables x, y, n in the rule affect the measure? The measure is defined on terms, not on rules. For any rewrite step C[lσ] -> C[rσ], we can show w(lσ) > w(rσ). Because w is a homomorphism-like function that depends on the structure. Since the inequality holds for the rule's variables, it holds for any substitution. Let's verify:

For rule 1: l = F(x,y,Z), r = x. w(lσ) = w(xσ) + w(yσ) + w(Zσ) + size(Zσ). Zσ = Z, size(Z) = 1. w(Zσ)=0. So w(lσ) = w(xσ) + w(yσ) + 1 > w(xσ) = w(rσ). So strictly greater.

For rule 2: l = F(x,y,S(n)), r = G(F(x,y,n)). w(lσ) = w(xσ)+w(yσ)+w(S(nσ))+size(S(nσ)). w(S(nσ)) = w(nσ). size(S(nσ)) = size(nσ)+1. So w(lσ) = w(xσ)+w(yσ)+w(nσ)+size(nσ)+1. w(rσ) = w(G(F(xσ,yσ,nσ))) = w(F(xσ,yσ,nσ)) = w(xσ)+w(yσ)+w(nσ)+size(nσ). So w(lσ) = w(rσ) + 1 > w(rσ). Good.

Thus w is a reduction ordering (a well-founded monotone ordering) that orients both rules strictly. Therefore the system is terminating (and since it's finitely branching, it's strongly normalizing? Actually termination means no infinite rewrite sequences, which is exactly strong normalization for abstract reduction systems. In TRS, termination is equivalent to strong normalization because each rewrite step is a binary relation; strong normalization means there is no infinite descending chain. So termination implies strong normalization. However, sometimes strong normalization is used to mean that every term is strongly normalizing (i.e., every rewrite sequence starting from any term is finite). That's the same as termination. So yes.

Thus the answer: Yes, strong normalization can be established. The reasoning is that we can define a weight function that counts, for each F occurrence, the size of its third argument. Each rewrite strictly decreases this weight. Because the weight is a natural number, no infinite reductions exist.

Alternatively, one can argue by induction on the structure of the third argument of the outermost F. But to avoid structural axioms, the weight argument is purely syntactic.

We should also consider if the system is confluent or something else, but SN is the only question.

Is there any trick? The system has no imported axioms, but the symbols S and Z might suggest natural numbers. However, we should not assume they behave like natural numbers. They are just uninterpreted function symbols. The rewrite system only knows the two rules. The question is: can SN be established without importing structural axioms (like induction on naturals) or object-level assumptions (like Z and S are constructors with disjoint images)? Yes, because we can use a generic measure.

Could there be an infinite rewrite sequence involving rewriting under G? No rule for G. Under S? No rule for S. Under Z? No. So only F can trigger reduction.

But what about rewriting inside x or y? Those are arbitrary terms. If x contains an F, it can reduce. But that doesn't affect the outer F. The measure accounts for all F's in the term. If we reduce an F inside x, that reduces the measure locally. So any rewrite step anywhere in the term reduces the total measure. Thus no infinite sequence.

Therefore the system is strongly normalizing, and this can be established from the rules alone.

So answer: Yes. Brief reasoning: define a well-founded measure (e.g., the sum over all F-subterms of the size of their third argument). Each rule strictly decreases this measure: the first rule removes an F and its third argument Z, decreasing the sum by at least 1; the second rule replaces S(n) by n in the third argument, decreasing the size of that argument by 1. Since the measure is a natural number and strictly decreases with every rewrite, the system is strongly normalizing.

We need to be concise. Let's craft the final answer.

But wait, the question says "Give your raw assessment: can strong normalization of this system be established from the presented rewrite system alone, without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules?" The answer is either "Yes" or "No". The reasoning should be brief.

We should also consider if there is any hidden issue: The system is not complete in the sense that there are terms that are stuck, but that doesn't affect SN. SN means every reduction sequence is finite. Stuck terms are fine.

Could there be an infinite rewrite sequence due to non-left-linear? No, both rules are left-linear.

Could there be an infinite rewrite sequence due to overlapping rules? The two rules overlap? The left-hand sides are F(x,y,Z) and F(x,y,S(n)). They don't unify because Z and S(n) don't unify (no equation Z = S(n)). So no overlap.

Could there be a critical pair? No.

The system is a basic primitive recursive definition. It's clearly terminating.

I think the answer is definitely Yes.

But let's think if there is any way the question expects "No". For example, maybe strong normalization cannot be established because we need an induction principle to show that F(x,y,S^n(Z)) reduces in n steps, and that requires induction on n, which is a structural axiom about natural numbers. However, in term rewriting, termination can be proved using a reduction ordering that doesn't require induction on natural numbers. The weight measure is defined structurally on terms and doesn't rely on n being a natural number. It just looks at the term structure.

However, some might argue that to show the measure is well-founded, we need to know that the size of a term is a natural number and that natural numbers are well-founded. But that's standard meta-theory, not an object-level assumption. The question says "without importing structural axioms or object-level assumptions beyond what is derivable from the given rules". Meta-theoretic well-foundedness of natural numbers is not an object-level assumption; it's part of the ambient mathematical reasoning. The question likely wants to know if we can prove SN using just the rules, or if we need additional axioms like Peano arithmetic to reason about S and Z. Since S and Z are just constructors, we don't need Peano axioms.

Thus answer: Yes, SN can be established. The system is terminating because each rewrite strictly decreases the total size of the third arguments of F-occurrences.

Let me formalize the measure a bit more clearly for the answer:

Define a function φ on terms:
- φ(Z) = 0, φ(S(t)) = φ(t) + 1 (if we treat S specially), but actually we can just use generic term size for the third argument.
Better: Let |t| be the number of function symbols in t. Define μ(F(t1,t2,t3)) = μ(t1)+μ(t2)+μ(t3)+|t3|, and μ(g(...)) = sum μ(ti) for any other symbol g. Then each rule reduces μ.

But wait: For rule 1, RHS is x. μ(x) = 0 if x is a variable? No, variables don't have function symbols, but we need to count F occurrences inside x. If x is a variable, μ(x) = 0? But x can be instantiated to a term containing F. The measure is defined on concrete terms (ground or non-ground). For a term containing variables, μ is defined recursively. For a variable v, μ(v) = 0? But then if we instantiate v to a term with F's, the measure changes. However, rewrite steps don't instantiate variables; they replace subterms. The measure is evaluated on the term before and after the rewrite. The term before the rewrite already has x instantiated to some term (since we are rewriting a concrete term). So if the subterm x is actually a complex term, it already contributes to μ on the LHS. So the inequality holds because the x on LHS and RHS is the same term.

Thus we can define μ for any term:
- μ(v) = 0 for variable v? Wait, if a variable v occurs inside a term, and v is not replaced, its contribution to μ is just the μ of whatever term it stands for. But in the syntax of a term with variables, variables are leaves. If we define μ(v) = 0, then when we compute μ(F(x,y,Z)) where x and y are variables, we get 0+0+0+size(Z) = 1. But after rewriting to x, we get μ(x) = 0. So the measure decreases. But if x is instantiated to a term t, then the term before rewrite is F(t, y, Z) (if x is instantiated to t). Wait, no: variables in rewrite rules are placeholders. The term being rewritten is a ground term (or a term with variables) where the left-hand side matches. Let's consider a concrete term: F(t1, t2, Z). Here t1 and t2 are subterms (possibly with variables). The match is with x->t1, y->t2. μ(LHS) = μ(t1) + μ(t2) + μ(Z) + size(Z) = μ(t1) + μ(t2) + 1. μ(RHS) = μ(t1). So decrease by μ(t2)+1 >= 1. Good.

Now consider rule 2: F(t1, t2, S(t3)). μ(LHS) = μ(t1)+μ(t2)+μ(S(t3))+size(S(t3)). μ(S(t3)) = μ(t3) because S is not F. size(S(t3)) = size(t3)+1. So μ(LHS) = μ(t1)+μ(t2)+μ(t3)+size(t3)+1. RHS = G(F(t1,t2,t3)). μ(RHS) = μ(F(t1,t2,t3)) = μ(t1)+μ(t2)+μ(t3)+size(t3). So decrease by 1. Good.

Thus the measure works for any concrete term. We don't need to define μ on variables separately because in the concrete term, there are no variables; or if there are, they are leaves with no F inside, so μ=0 is fine.

But wait: what if the term has variables that range over arbitrary terms? In standard TRS, terms with variables are also rewritten. A variable is a normal form and contains no redexes. If we define μ(v)=0 for a variable v, then consider a term F(v, y, Z) where v is a variable. μ = 0 + μ(y) + 1. After rewriting to v, μ = 0. So the measure decreases. Later, if we instantiate v to something? No, rewriting doesn't instantiate variables. So it's fine.

Thus the measure is well-defined and works.

Therefore, strong normalization can be established by purely syntactic reasoning on the term structure, without assuming anything about S and Z beyond their occurrence in the rules.

Hence answer: Yes.

Now, to be thorough, let's consider if the system could admit infinite rewriting due to some pathological term like F(F(...), ...). But we already saw that each F reduction reduces the measure, and there are only finitely many F occurrences in any given term. Wait, does the number of F occurrences change? Rule 1 removes one F and possibly removes F's in y. Rule 2 preserves the number of F occurrences (one F on LHS, one F on RHS). However, the measure decreases because the size of the third argument of that F decreases. So even though the number of F's stays the same for rule 2, the measure decreases. So any rewrite sequence can apply rule 2 at most size(initial third argument) times to that same F occurrence before it becomes an F with third argument Z (or something else). Then rule 1 applies and removes it. So each F occurrence eventually disappears. Since rule 2 doesn't create new F occurrences elsewhere (the new F is the same occurrence, just moved inside G), the total number of F occurrences is non-increasing. Actually, could rule 2 create a new F inside the third argument? No, the new F has the same x and y and n, which were subterms of the old F. It doesn't create F's where there were none. Rule 1 removes an F and doesn't create any new F's (x may contain F's, but those were already there). So the total number of F occurrences never increases. But that's not enough for SN because rule 2 could be applied infinitely if the third argument doesn't decrease? But it does decrease in size. So finite.

Thus SN holds.

One more check: Is there any possibility of an infinite rewrite sequence using rule 1 in a tricky way? Rule 1 requires the third argument to be Z. If we have F(x,y,Z) -> x, and x itself contains a subterm F(x',y',Z), then after reducing the outer F, we expose the inner F? Actually, the inner F was already present in x. So it could have been reduced before or after. But reducing the outer F removes the context around x, but doesn't create new redexes. So no infinite loops.

Thus the system is acyclic and terminating.

So final answer: Yes, strong normalization can be established. Reason: define a weight on terms that sums, over each occurrence of F, the size of its third argument. Each rule strictly lowers this weight (by at least 1). Because the weight is a natural number, no infinite reduction sequence exists. This argument uses only the syntactic form of the given rules and does not rely on any external axioms about S, Z, or the natural numbers.

I will phrase the answer concisely.

But the question might be from a specific context (e.g., a proof assistant or a meta-theoretical analysis). The phrase "raw assessment" suggests a yes/no with brief justification. So I'll write:

Assessment: Yes, the system is strongly normalizing, and this can be established from the rules alone.

Reasoning: Consider the measure μ(t) = Σ_{F(u,v,w) subterm of t} |w|, where |w| is the number of function symbols in w. Rule 1 removes one such summand of size 1 and discards the second argument, so μ decreases by at least 1. Rule 2 replaces a summand for S(n) by one for n, decreasing |w| by 1 while leaving the rest unchanged, so μ decreases by exactly 1. Since μ is a natural number and strictly decreases with every rewrite step, all rewrite sequences are finite.

Alternatively, one can say: The only redexes are F-terms. The second rule strictly decreases the depth of the third argument (peeling off one S). The first rule removes the F entirely when the third argument is Z. Thus any F-reduction sequence is finite, and no other symbols create redexes, so the whole system is SN.

I'll provide a brief but clear explanation.

One subtlety: The term "strong normalization" in TRS usually means that every term is strongly normalizing (every rewrite sequence from any term terminates). Some authors use "termination" for that. But here it's the same.

Thus final answer.